ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors below represent what we believe are the known material risk factors with respect to us and our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position or future financial results. Our results of operations are cyclical and could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the commodity prices for hogs and grains. We are largely dependent on the cost and supply of hogs and feed ingredients and the selling price of our products and competing protein products, all of which are determined by constantly changing and volatile market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include: § competing demand for corn for use in the manufacture of ethanol or other alternative fuels, § environmental and conservation regulations, § import and export restrictions such as trade barriers resulting from, among other things, health concerns, § economic conditions, § weather, including weather impacts on our water supply and the impact on the availability and pricing of grains, § energy prices, including the effect of changes in energy prices on our transportation costs and the cost of feed, and § crop and livestock diseases. We cannot assure you that all or part of any increased costs experienced by us from time to time can be passed along to consumers of our products, in a timely manner or at all. Hog prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting the supply of hogs on the market. Further, hog raising costs are largely dependent on the fluctuations of commodity prices for corn and other feed ingredients. For example, our fiscal 2009 results of operations were negatively impacted by higher feed and feed ingredient costs which increased hog raising costs to $62 per hundredweight in fiscal 2009 from $50 per hundred weight in the prior year, or 24%, at a time of continued weak lean hog prices due to excess supply. When hog prices are lower than our hog production costs, our non-vertically integrated competitors may have a cost advantage. Additionally, commodity pork prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting changes in the supply of fresh pork and competing proteins on the market, especially beef and chicken. For example, our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter and fiscal 2007 first half financial results were impacted negatively by an over-supply of protein that decreased selling prices of our fresh and packaged meats. We attempt to manage certain of these risks through the use of our risk management and hedging programs. However, these programs may also limit our ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. For example, we ensured availability of grain supplies in the summer of 2008 through the end of fiscal 2009 by locking in corn at approximately $6 per bushel through this period. As a result, our feed costs remained at these high levels through the end of fiscal 2009 despite the decrease in the price of corn on the commodities markets during such period. The high cost of feed, in particular corn, and the impact of these hedges were principal factors in making the Hog Production segment unprofitable during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. Additionally, a portion of our commodity derivative contracts are marked-to-market such that the related unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings on a quarterly basis. This accounting treatment may cause significant volatility in our quarterly earnings. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Derivative Financial Instruments” for further information. Outbreaks of disease among or attributed to livestock can significantly affect production, the supply of raw materials, demand for our products and our business. We take precautions to ensure that our livestock are healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary manner. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Livestock health problems could adversely impact production, the supply of raw materials and consumer confidence in all of our operating segments. From time to time, we have experienced outbreaks of certain livestock diseases, such as the outbreaks of classical swine fever at three of our hog farms in Romania in August 2007 and the outbreak of circovirus at our U.S. facilities that began in late fiscal 2006. We may experience additional occurrences of disease in the future. Disease can reduce the number of offspring produced, hamper the growth of livestock to finished size, result in expensive vaccination programs and require in some cases the destruction of infected livestock, all of which could adversely affect our production or ability to sell or export our products. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, particularly as we expand our branded pork products. 14 In addition to risks associated with maintaining the health of our livestock, any outbreak of disease elsewhere in the U.S. or in other countries could reduce consumer confidence in the meat products affected by the particular disease, generate adverse publicity, depress market conditions for our hogs internationally and/or domestically and result in the imposition of import or export restrictions. For example, the initial and widespread media reports regarding the A(H1N1) influenza outbreak labeled the influenza the “swine flu” or a variation thereof. We experienced a temporary decline in sales due to the perceived risk of A(H1N1) and pork prices dropped sharply during a period in which prices normally move higher. Outbreaks of disease among or attributed to livestock also may have indirect consequences that adversely affect our business. For example, past outbreaks of avian influenza in various parts of the world reduced the global demand for poultry and thus created a temporary surplus of poultry both domestically and internationally. This poultry surplus placed downward pressure on poultry prices which in turn reduced meat prices including pork both in the U.S. and internationally. Any perceived or real health risks related to our products or the food industry generally or increased regulation could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by the following: § food spoilage or food contamination, § evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns, § consumer product liability claims, § product tampering, § the possible unavailability and expense of product liability insurance, and § the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Adverse publicity concerning any perceived or real health risk associated with our products could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, particularly as we expand our branded products business. We could also be adversely affected by perceived or real health risks associated with similar products produced by others to the extent such risks cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of such products generally and, therefore, lead customers to opt for other meat options that are perceived as safe. The A(H1N1) influenza outbreak that began in late fiscal 2009 illustrates the adverse impact that can result from perceived health risks associated with the products we sell. Although the CDC and other regulatory and scientific bodies indicated that people cannot get A(H1N1) influenza from eating cooked pork or pork products, the perception of some consumers that the disease could be transmitted in that manner was the apparent cause of the temporary decline in pork consumption in late fiscal 2009 and early fiscal 2010. Our products are susceptible to contamination by disease producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella, Campylobacter and generic E. coli. Because these pathogens are generally found in the environment, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. We have systems in place designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of our vertically integrated process. However, we cannot assure you that such systems, even when working effectively, will eliminate the risks related to food safety. These pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. In addition to the risks caused by our processing operations and the subsequent handling of the products, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our products. We could be required to recall certain of our products in the event of contamination or adverse test results. Any product contamination also could subject us to product liability claims, adverse publicity and government scrutiny, investigation or intervention, resulting in increased costs and decreased sales as customers lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results. Our manufacturing facilities and products, including the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of our products, are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations in the food safety area, including constant government inspections and governmental food processing controls. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. If we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations, particularly if it relates to or compromises food safety, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, future material changes in food safety regulations could result in increased operating costs or could be required to be implemented on schedules that cannot be met without interruptions in our operations. 15 Environmental regulation and related litigation and commitments could have a material adverse effect on us. Our past and present business operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including among others: § the treatment and discharge of materials into the environment, § the handling and disposition of manure and solid wastes and § the emission of greenhouse gases. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Some requirements applicable to us may also be enforced by citizen groups or other third parties. Natural disasters, such as flooding and hurricanes, can cause the discharge of effluents or other waste into the environment, potentially resulting in our being subject to further liability claims and governmental regulation as has occurred in the past. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation” for further discussion of regulatory compliance as it relates to environmental risk. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. We also face the risk of nuisance lawsuits even if we are operating in compliance with applicable regulations. Before we acquired PSF, other nuisance suits in Missouri resulted in jury verdicts against PSF and Continental Grain Company (CGC). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, a jury awarded compensatory damages totaling $11,050,000 to 15 plaintiffs in another nuisance suit. Currently, we are defending a number of additional nuisance suits with respect to farms in Missouri. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Missouri litigation.” In addition, pursuant to a voluntary agreement with the State of North Carolina, we committed to implement environmentally superior and economically feasible technologies for the management of swine waste at our farms in North Carolina provided a determination is made by an expert from North Carolina State University that such technologies are both environmentally superior and economically feasible to construct and operate at such farms. We also acquired PSF in fiscal 2008, which entered into environmental consent decrees in the State of Missouri requiring PSF to research, develop and implement new technologies to control wastewater, air and odor emissions from its Missouri farms. See “Item 1. Business—Environmental Stewardship” and “Item 1. Business—Regulation” for further information regarding these obligations. We cannot assure you that the costs of carrying out these obligations will not exceed previous estimates or that requirements applicable to us will not be altered in ways that will require us to incur significant additional costs and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, new environmental issues could arise that would cause currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures. Governmental authorities may take further action restricting our ability to own livestock or to engage in farming or restricting such operations generally, which could adversely affect our business. A number of states, including Iowa and Missouri, have adopted legislation that prohibits or restricts the ability of meat packers, or in some cases corporations generally, from owning livestock or engaging in farming. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the State of Iowa whereby the state agreed not to enforce its restrictive legislation on us for a period of ten years. As a part of our settlement, we committed to pay $200,000 per year for 10 years to support various programs benefiting the swine industry in Iowa. We also agreed to purchase a specified minimum number of hogs to be processed by us in Iowa and South Dakota on the open market for two years. Other states have similar legislation restricting the ability of corporations or others from owning livestock farms or engaging in farming. In addition, Congress has recently considered federal legislation that would ban meat packers from owning livestock. We cannot assure you that such or similar legislation affecting our operations will not be adopted at the federal or state levels in the future. Such legislation, if adopted and applicable to our current operations and not successfully challenged or settled, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial statements. In fiscal 2008, the State of North Carolina enacted a permanent moratorium on the construction of new hog farms using the lagoon and sprayfield system. The moratorium limits us from expanding our North Carolina production operations. This permanent moratorium replaced a 10-year moratorium on the construction of hog farms with more than 250 hogs or the expansion of existing large farms. This moratorium may over time lead to increased competition for contract growers. 16 Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. As of May 2, 2010, we had: § approximately $3,008.1 million of indebtedness; § guarantees of up to $80.3 million for the financial obligations of certain unconsolidated joint ventures and hog farmers; § guarantees of $13.5 million for leases that were transferred to JBS in connection with the sale of Smithfield Beef; and § aggregate borrowing capacity available under our ABL Credit Facility totaling $707.2 million, taking into account a borrowing base adjustment of $74.9 million, no outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit of $217.9 million. Our indebtedness may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. In addition, due to the volatile nature of the commodities markets, we may have to borrow significant amounts to cover any margin calls under our risk management and hedging programs. During fiscal 2010, margin deposits posted by us ranged from $(22.6) million to $233.4 million (negative amounts representing margin deposits we have received from our brokers). Our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: § it may, together with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, significantly limit or impair our ability in the future to obtain financing, refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and materially impair our liquidity, § a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase the cost of future borrowings. For example, in fiscal 2009, both Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Services twice downgraded our credit ratings, which resulted in increased interest expense, and our credit rating is currently on negative watch by S&P, § it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, § a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise, § substantially all of our assets in the United States secure our ABL Credit Facility, our Rabobank Term Loan and our Senior Secured Notes, which could limit our ability to dispose of such assets or utilize the proceeds of such dispositions and, upon an event of default under any such secured indebtedness, the lenders thereunder could foreclose upon our pledged assets, and § it could make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic or industry conditions or in our business. Further, our debt agreements restrict the payment of dividends to shareholders and, under certain circumstances, may limit additional borrowings, investments, the acquisition or disposition of assets, mergers and consolidations, transactions with affiliates, the creation of liens and the repayment of certain debt. For example, we anticipate that, if availability under the ABL Credit Facility does not meet certain thresholds, we will be subject to financial condition maintenance tests under the ABL Credit Facility and the Rabobank Term Loan. In addition, as more fully described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Debt Covenants and the Incurrence Test,” the indentures relating to our senior unsecured notes preclude us from incurring certain additional indebtedness and restrict us from engaging in certain other activities, including paying cash dividends, repurchasing our common stock and making certain investments when our interest coverage ratio is less than 2.0 to 1.0 (the “Incurrence Test”). As of May 2, 2010, we did not meet the Incurrence Test, and we do not expect to meet the Incurrence Test again until the second quarter of fiscal 2011 at the earliest. Failure to meet the Incurrence Test limits our flexibility in accessing the credit markets and, should this failure continue, could adversely affect our business and financial condition by, among other things, limiting our ability to obtain financing, refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due and take advantage of corporate opportunities. 17 Should market conditions deteriorate, or our operating results be depressed in the future, we may have to request amendments to our covenants and restrictions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such relief should it be needed in the future. A breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default that would permit our senior lenders, including lenders under the ABL Credit Facility or the Rabobank Term Loan, the holders of our Senior Secured Notes or the holders of our senior unsecured notes, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding under the ABL Credit Facility, the Rabobank Term Loan, the Senior Secured Notes or the senior unsecured notes to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the commitments of the relevant senior lenders to make further extensions of credit under the ABL Credit Facility could be terminated. If we were unable to repay our indebtedness to our lenders under our secured debt, these lenders could proceed, where applicable, against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which could include substantially all of our assets. Our future ability to comply with financial covenants and other conditions, make scheduled payments of principal and interest, or refinance existing borrowings depends on future business performance that is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, including the other risks set forth in this Item 1A. We may not be successful in implementing and executing on our hog production cost savings initiative and we can provide no assurance in the expected profitability improvements from the cost savings initiative or the pork restructuring plan. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we announced a plan to improve the cost structure and profitability of our domestic hog production operations. The Cost Savings Initiative includes a number of undertakings designed to improve operating efficiencies and productivity. These consist of farm reconfigurations and conversions, and termination of certain high cost, third party hog grower contracts and breeding stock sourcing contracts, as well as a number of other cost reduction activities. We can provide no assurance, however, that the Cost Savings Initiative will result in the expected profitability improvement in our Hog Production segment. Further, in February 2009, we announced a plan to consolidate and streamline the corporate structure and manufacturing operations in our Pork segment to improve operating efficiencies and increase plant utilization. The Restructuring Plan resulted in the consolidation of several of our Pork segment business units into three large operating companies. We can provide no assurance, however, that the Restructuring Plan will result in the expected level of annual cost savings and improved pre-tax earnings. Our operations are subject to the risks associated with acquisitions and investments in joint ventures. Although our overall focus has shifted from acquisitions to integration of existing operations, we may continue to review opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions in the future. We have also pursued and may in the future pursue strategic growth through investment in joint ventures. These acquisitions and investments may involve large transactions or realignment of existing investments such as the recent merger of Groupe Smithfield and Campofrío. These transactions present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: § diversion of management attention from other business concerns, § difficulty with integrating businesses, operations, personnel and financial and other systems, § lack of experience in operating in the geographical market of the acquired business, § increased levels of debt potentially leading to associated reduction in ratings of our debt securities and adverse impact on our various financial ratios, § the requirement that we periodically review the value at which we carry our investments in joint ventures, and, in the event we determine that the value at which we carry a joint venture investment has been impaired, the requirement to record a non-cash impairment charge, which charge could substantially affect our reported earnings in the period of such charge, would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future, § potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, § assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses, § potential disputes with the sellers, and § for our investments, potential lack of common business goals and strategies with, and cooperation of, our joint venture partners In addition, acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique difficulties and increase our exposure to those risks associated with international operations. We could experience financial or other setbacks if any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future have problems of which we are not aware or liabilities that exceed expectations. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Missouri Litigation” regarding lawsuits filed in Missouri against PSF and CGC by neighboring individuals largely based on the laws of nuisance, including a jury verdict for compensatory damages totaling $11,050,000 to 15 plaintiffs in fiscal 2010. Although we are continuing PSF’s vigorous defense of these claims, we cannot assure you that we will be successful, that additional nuisance claims will not arise in the future or that the reserves for this litigation will not have to be substantially increased. 18 Our numerous equity investments in joint ventures, partnerships and other entities, both within and outside the U.S., are periodically involved in modifying and amending their credit facilities and loan agreements. The ability of these entities to refinance or amend their facilities on a successful and satisfactory basis, and to comply with the covenants in their financing facilities, affects our assessment of the carrying value of any individual investment. As of May 2, 2010, none of our equity investments represented more than 6% of our total consolidated assets. If we determine in the future that an investment is impaired, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge, which could substantially affect our reported earnings in the period of such charge. In addition, any such impairment charge would negatively impact our financial ratios. See “Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1: Investments” for a discussion of the accounting treatment of our equity investments. We are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. We conduct foreign operations in Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom and export our products to more than 40 countries. In addition, we are engaged in joint ventures mainly in Mexico and China and have significant investments in Western Europe. As of May 2, 2010, approximately 27% of our long-lived assets were associated with our foreign operations. Because of the growing market share of U.S. pork products in the international markets, U.S. exporters are increasingly being affected by measures taken by importing countries to protect local producers. As a result, our international sales, operations and investments are subject to various risks related to economic or political uncertainties including among others: § general economic and political conditions, § imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries, § the closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of our products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues, § difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, § different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments, § tax rates that may exceed those in the United States and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation, § potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, and § distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. Furthermore, our foreign operations are subject to the risks described above as well as additional risks and uncertainties including among others: § fluctuations in currency values, which have affected, among other things, the costs of our investments in foreign operations, § translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, and § foreign currency exchange controls. Negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. Our operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims related to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Moreover, the process of litigating cases, even if we are successful, may be costly, and may approximate the cost of damages sought. These actions could also expose us to adverse publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and/or customer preference for our products. Litigation trends and expenses and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends, expenses and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. 19 We depend on availability of, and satisfactory relations with, our employees. As of May 2, 2010, we had approximately 48,000 employees, 27,500 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. Our operations depend on the availability, retention and relative costs of labor and maintaining satisfactory relations with employees and the labor unions. Further, employee shortages can and do occur, particularly in rural areas where some of our operations are located. Labor relations issues arise from time to time, including issues in connection with union efforts to represent employees at our plants and with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes, work stoppages or other labor disputes. Negotiation of collective bargaining agreements also could result in higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, the discovery by us or governmental authorities of undocumented workers, as has occurred in the past, could result in our having to attempt to replace those workers, which could be disruptive to our operations or may be difficult to do. Immigration reform continues to attract significant attention in the public arena and the U.S. Congress. If new immigration legislation is enacted, such laws may contain provisions that could increase our costs in recruiting, training and retaining employees. Also, although our hiring practices comply with the requirements of federal law in reviewing employees’ citizenship or authority to work in the U.S., increased enforcement efforts with respect to existing immigration laws by governmental authorities may disrupt a portion of our workforce or our operations at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively impacting our business. We cannot assure you that these activities or consequences will not adversely affect our financial results in the future. The continued consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. Our ten largest customers represented approximately 29% of net sales for fiscal year 2010. We do not have long-term sales agreements (other than to certain third-party hog customers) or other contractual assurances as to future sales to these major customers. In addition, continued consolidation within the retail industry, including among supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base and increased our credit exposure to certain customers. Our business could be materially adversely affected and suffer significant set backs in sales and operating income if our larger customers’ plans, markets, and/or financial condition should change significantly. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends, and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require us to make judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to management’s judgment in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill recoverability. Goodwill reviews are prepared using estimates of the fair value of reporting units based on market multiples of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) or on the estimated present value of future discounted cash flows. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business and market capitalization declines. For example, at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we performed an interim test of the carrying amount of goodwill related to our U.S. hog production operations. We undertook this test due to the significant losses recently incurred in our hog production operations and decline in the market price of our common stock. We determined that the fair value of our U.S. hog production reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by more than 20 percent. Therefore goodwill was not impaired. However, these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in non-cash goodwill impairment charges in the future. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, our market capitalization was below our book value, which is a potential indicator of impairment. By the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, our market capitalization once again exceeded our book value. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of May 2, 2010, we had $822.9 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 11% of total assets. 20 Deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. The downturn in the U.S. economy may result in reduced demand for certain of our products, downward pressure on prices and shifts to less profitable private label products. Moreover, any material reduction in demand for our products in our key export markets (China, Japan, Mexico, Russia and Canada) could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The recent disruptions and instability in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, could, among other things: § make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; § cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any technical or other waivers under our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; § impair the financial condition of some of our customers, suppliers or counterparties to our derivative instruments, thereby increasing customer bad debts, non-performance by suppliers or counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; § negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; § decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our company-owned life insurance and pension plan assets, which could result in higher pension cost and statutorily mandated funding requirements; and § impair the financial viability of our insurers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 21 