Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is extremely risky. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The following are some of the factors we 14 Table of Contents believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose part or all of your investment. Other factors besides those listed here could also adversely affect us. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • cancellation or delay of customer orders or shipments; • market acceptance of our products and those of our customers; • variability of the life cycles of our customers’ products; • variations in manufacturing yields; • timing of announcements and introduction of new products by us and our competitors; • changes in the mix of products we sell; • declining average sales prices for our products; • changes in manufacturing capacity and variations in the utilization of that capacity; • variations in operating expenses; • impairments of our assets; • the long sales cycles associated with our customer-specific products; • the timing and level of product and process development costs; • availability of materials used in the assembly of our products; • variations in raw material quality and costs; • delays in new process qualification or delays in transferring processes; • additional costs or delays in increasing manufacturing capacity needed to support increasing customer demand; • the timing and level of nonrecurring engineering revenues and expenses relating to customer-specific products; • significant changes in our and our customers’ inventory levels; and • delivery terms requiring that we cover shipment and insurance costs as well as request that we cover duty costs. We expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these and other factors. Any unfavorable changes in these or other factors could cause our results of operations to suffer as they have in the past. Due to potential fluctuations, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Additionally, if our operating results are not within the market’s expectations, then our stock price may fall. The public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents New competitive products and technologies brought into the market could reduce demand for our current product offerings. Further, our business may be adversely impacted if we fail to successfully introduce new products or to gain our customers’ acceptance of those new products. The markets for electronic communications applications in which we participate are subject to intense competition, rapid technological change, and short product life cycles. It is critical for companies such as ours to continually and quickly develop new products to meet the changing needs of these markets. If we fail to develop new products to meet our customers’ needs on a timely basis, we will not be able to effectively compete in these markets. Further, new products could be introduced by competitors that have a competitive and technological advantages over our current product line-up. For example, new products have been introduced that use a direct conversion architecture in wireless phones. Direct conversion architecture has been available since the mid-1990’s for GSM phones and wireless phone manufacturers are increasingly using this technology in their new handsets. This technology reduces the number of components needed in the receiver portion of wireless phones, including our SAW IF filter products. As a result of the adoption of direct conversion technology, the sale of our IF filters declined approximately 79% in 2005 as compared to 2004. Other competitive filtering technologies, including BAW and film bulk acoustic resonator (“FBAR”), a form of BAW, have been introduced and have gained market acceptance in certain applications. We are actively pursuing new products such as RF filters, duplexers, power amplifiers, RF modules and BAW filtering to offset the decline in sales of products affected by direct conversion architecture and the loss of revenues from new filtering technologies. If we fail to design and produce these products in a manner acceptable to our customers, or have incorrectly anticipated our customers’ demand for these types of products, our business, financial condition and results of operation will suffer. Our business will be adversely impacted if we do not continue to gain market acceptance of our wireless phone module products or develop effective manufacturing processes to produce them. Our strategy for wireless phone products depends in large part upon the success of our design and marketing of wireless phone modules. Wireless phone modules represent the incorporation of some or all of the components of the wireless phone radio into a single product. If we are unable to design these modules in a manner acceptable to our customers or have incorrectly anticipated our customers’ demand for these products, our operating results will be adversely affected. Manufacturing RF module products represents a departure from our traditional component manufacturing business. Production of module products entails different manufacturing and planning processes, costs, yields, and lead times. If we fail to successfully transition manufacturing resources to produce these products or are unable to do so cost-effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our current experience is that increased module sales are having a negative impact on our gross margins due to our production costs. If we are unable to reduce the costs of producing modules, our total gross margin will decrease as the proportion of module sales increase and our operating results may decline. Our operating results may suffer due to fluctuations in demand for semiconductors and electronic communications components. From time to time, our wireless phone, broadband, base station and military markets have experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles, capital spending cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The cyclical nature of these markets has led to significant imbalances in demand, inventory levels and production capacity. It has also accelerated the decrease of average selling prices per unit. We have experienced, and may experience again, periodic fluctuations in our financial results because of these or other industry-wide conditions. For example, if demand for communications applications were to decrease substantially, demand for the integrated circuits and modules, components and other products in these applications would also decline, which would negatively affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents We depend on the continued growth of communications markets and cost-effective selling prices. We derive our product revenues from sales of products and services for electronic communication applications. These markets are characterized by the following: • cyclical demand; • intense competition; • rapid technological change; and • short product life cycles, especially in the wireless phone market. The electronic communications markets are currently above their cyclical lows of the recent past, however there is no guarantee that these markets will resume historical growth rates. Further, as is characteristic of the integrated circuit and acoustic filter component industries, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products’ life cycles and we expect this pattern to continue. To offset these decreasing selling prices, we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products of similar functionality to existing products but with lower costs by design or new products which incorporate advanced features and can be sold at higher average selling prices. We also work closely with our suppliers to obtain continual improvement on pricing of key raw materials and components. As more of our product offerings migrate toward integrated assemblies requiring the acquisition of outside manufactured components, we will have to work effectively with our suppliers to reduce the total cost of the respective bill of material. If the current market demand trend does not continue to improve, and/or if there is continued pressure on average selling prices and our cost reduction efforts are not effective, our operating results could suffer. Additionally, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards. If these introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or if our customers’ products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers or that will meet with substantial market acceptance. In the event we are not able to satisfy a significant increase in demand from any one of our customers or our customers in total we may not be viewed as a dependable high volume supplier and our customers will source their demand elsewhere. In some areas of our business, we have customers, particularly those in the wireless handset market, which ship their completed products in very large unit volumes. These customers may require large inventories of our products on short notice. If we are unable to support our customers when their production volume increases, we may be considered an undependable supplier and our customer may seek alternate suppliers for products which we may have anticipated producing over an extended period of time and in large quantities. If our customers consider us to be an undependable supplier, our operating results could be adversely affected as we may not be able to find alternative sources of revenue. Our financial statements will have a significant material adverse charge when we are required to expense share-based payment to employees. On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which replaces SFAS No. 123, supersedes APB No. 25, and amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flow. SFAS 123(R) became effective for us on January 1, 2006. During the periods presented in this Form 10-K, we used the Black-Scholes model for option expense calculation and have presented pro forma disclosure of the income statement effect in financial statement footnotes under SFAS No. 123. However, under 17 Table of Contents SFAS No. 123(R), pro forma disclosure of the income statement effects of share-based payments will no longer be an alternative and all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and the benefits of the employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) will be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. In addition, we must also recognize compensation expense related to any awards that are not fully vested as of the effective date. Compensation expense for the unvested awards will be measured based on the fair value of the awards previously calculated in developing the pro forma disclosures in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123. Currently, we expect the effect of SFAS 123(R) to be approximately $2 million (unaudited) in the first quarter of 2006 and between $7 million and $10 million (unaudited) for the full year. This expense will be included in our financial statements in 2006 and includes the value of the options granted in 2006 and those previously granted which have not fully vested, as well as the shares purchased and expected to be purchased as part of our ESPP. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires companies to do a comprehensive and costly evaluation of their internal controls. As a result, as of December 31, 2005, we were required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our auditor publicly attest that such evaluation. At December 31, 2005, management asserted, and our auditors attested, that we had no material weaknesses over internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ attestation of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not arise when we test the effectiveness of our systems in the future. If a material weakness is discovered, we could be subject to regulatory investigations or sanctions, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our revenues are at risk if we do not introduce new products and/or decrease costs. The production of GaAs integrated circuits has been and continues to be more costly than the production of silicon devices. Although we have reduced production costs through decreasing raw wafer costs, increasing wafer size and fabrication yields, and achieving higher volumes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to decrease production costs. Further, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products’ lives and we expect them to continue to do so. To offset these decreases, we rely primarily on achieving yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products and on introducing new products that can be manufactured at lower costs. However, we believe our costs of producing GaAs integrated circuits will continue to exceed the costs associated with the production of silicon devices. As a result, we must offer devices which provide superior performance to that of silicon such that the perceived price/performance of our products is competitive with silicon devices and there can be no assurance that we can continue to identify markets which require performance superior to that offered by silicon solutions or that we will continue to offer products which provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differentials. We believe our future success depends, in part, on our timely development and introduction of new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and adequately address customer requirements. The success of new product and process introductions depends on several factors, including: • proper selection of products and processes; • successful and timely completion of product and process development and commercialization; • market acceptance of our or our customers’ new products; 18 Table of Contents • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; • our ability to offer new products at competitive prices; and • managing the cost of raw materials and manufacturing services. Our product and process development efforts may not be successful and our new products or processes may not achieve market acceptance. To the extent that our cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, our results of operations could suffer. Our business could be harmed if systems manufacturers do not use components made of GaAs or the other alternative materials we utilize. Silicon semiconductor technologies are the dominant process technologies for integrated circuits and the performance of silicon integrated circuits continues to improve. System designers may be reluctant to adopt our products because of: • their unfamiliarity with designing systems with our products; • their concerns related to manufacturing costs and yields; • their unfamiliarity with our design and manufacturing processes; and • uncertainties about the relative cost effectiveness of our products compared to high performance silicon components. Systems manufacturers may not use GaAs components because the production of GaAs integrated circuits has been, and continues to be, more costly than the production of silicon devices. Systems manufacturers may also be reluctant to rely on a jointly produced product because future supplies may depend on our continued good relationships with those vendors. As a result, we must offer devices that provide superior performance to that of traditional silicon based devices. In addition, customers may be reluctant to rely on a smaller company like us for critical components. We cannot be certain that additional systems manufacturers will design our products into their systems or that the companies that have utilized our products will continue to do so in the future. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our results of operations would suffer. A decline in the growth of wireless communications or in the continued acceptance of CDMA technology, particularly in emerging markets, would have an adverse impact on us. Our products for CDMA-based systems, including filters for base stations and receivers and power amplifiers for wireless phones comprise a significant part of our business. CDMA technology is relatively expensive and there can be no assurance that emerging markets, such as China and India, will continue to adopt this technology. Our business and financial results would be adversely impacted if CDMA technology does not continue to gain acceptance or if demand does not strengthen. If we fail to sell a high volume of products, our operating results will be harmed. Because large portions of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, our manufacturing volumes are critical to our operating results. If we fail to achieve acceptable manufacturing volumes or experience product shipment delays, our results of operations could be harmed. During periods of decreased demand, our high fixed manufacturing costs negatively affect our results of operations. We base our expense levels in part on our expectations of future orders and these expense levels are predominantly fixed in the short-term. If we receive fewer customer orders than expected or if our customers delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to reduce our manufacturing costs in the short-term and our operating results would be harmed. In addition, we are selling products to an increasing number of our customers on a consignment basis, which can limit our ability to forecast revenues and adjust our costs in the short-term, if appropriate. 19 Table of Contents Our excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our operating results. Certain manufacturing lines in our facilities have historically been underutilized, primarily at our six-inch and four-inch wafer production facilities in Hillsboro and Richardson. The excess capacity means we incur increased fixed costs in our products relative to the revenue we generate which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. If we are unable to improve utilization levels and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not sell our customer-specific products in large volumes, our operating results may be harmed. We manufacture a substantial portion of our products to address the needs of individual customers. Frequent product introductions by systems manufacturers make our future success dependent on our ability to select development projects which will result in sufficient volumes to enable us to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. Because customer-specific products are developed for unique applications, we expect that some of our current and future customer-specific products may never be produced in sufficient volume and may impair our ability to cover our fixed manufacturing costs. Furthermore, if customers cancel or delay orders for these customer-specific products, our inventory of these products may become unmarketable or obsolete, which would negatively affect our operating results. In addition, if we experience delays in completing designs, fail to obtain development contracts from customers whose products are successful, or fail to have our product designed into the next generation product of existing volume production customers, our revenues could be harmed. We face challenges and risks associated with our acquisition of TFR and, as a result, may not realize the expected benefit of this acquisition. On January 5, 2005, we completed the acquisition of TFR. We face risks associated with this acquisition such as: • our ability to develop new products and generate new design wins; • our ability to retain the employees and to integrate them into our corporate culture; • our ability to retain existing partners and customers of this business; • our ability to cost-effectively develop commercial products using BAW technology; • our ability to successfully integrate the BAW applications into our products; and • our ability to successfully integrate the systems of internal controls over financial reporting of TFR with our existing systems. If investors or financial or industry analysts do not think the integration of our acquisitions is proceeding as anticipated or that the benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline if: • the integration of our acquisitions is not completed in a timely and efficient manner; • our assumptions about the business models and operations of the acquired businesses were incorrect or their role in our business does not develop as we planned in a manner consistent with the guidance we gave; • we are unable to introduce new products incorporating acquired technology; 20 Table of Contents • the effect of the acquisitions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; or • following the acquisitions, our stockholders that hold relatively larger interests in our company may decide to dispose of their shares because the results of the acquisitions are not consistent with their expectations. We face risks of a loss of revenues if contracts with the U.S. government or military contractors are canceled or delayed. In 2005 and 2004, we received approximately 14% and 13%, respectively, of our revenues from the U.S. government or from prime contractors on U.S. government sponsored programs principally for military applications. These military programs with the U.S. government generally have long lead times such as the DARPA contract and the F-22 and B-2 aircraft programs. They are also subject to delays or cancellation. Changes in military funding or the loss of a significant military program or contract would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Further, spending on military contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the U.S. government. During 2005 and 2004, we believe our government and military contracts were negatively impacted by the war in Iraq as the government allocated more funding to the war and less on new development and long-term programs, such as the ones we are dependent upon. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes, the maintenance of our fabrication facilities and the processes of our vendors. The fabrication of integrated circuits, particularly those made of GaAs, is a highly complex and precise process. Our integrated circuits are primarily manufactured on wafers made of GaAs while our SAW filters are currently manufactured primarily on LiNbO3, LiTaO3 and quartz wafers and our BAW wafers are currently manufactured on sapphire or silicon wafers. We refer to the proportion of final components that have been processed, assembled and tested relative to the gross number of components that could be constructed from the raw materials as our manufacturing yield. Compared to the manufacture of silicon integrated circuits, GaAs technology is less mature and more difficult to design and manufacture within specifications in large volume. In addition, the more brittle nature of GaAs wafers can result in lower manufacturing yields than with silicon wafers and during manufacturing, each wafer is processed to contain numerous integrated circuits or SAW/BAW filters. We may reject or be unable to sell a substantial percentage of wafers or the components on a given wafer because of: • minute impurities; • difficulties in the fabrication process, such as failure of special equipment, operator error or power outages; • defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer; • electrical and/or optical performance; • wafer breakage; or • other factors. We have in the past experienced lower than expected manufacturing yields, which have delayed product shipments and negatively impacted our results of operations. We may experience difficulty maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. Further, the transfer of production of a product to a different facility often requires the qualification of the facility by certain customers. There can be no certainty that such changes and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our results of operations. Further, offshore 21 Table of Contents operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including delays in transportation, changes in governmental policies, tariffs, import/export regulations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates in addition to geographic limitations on management controls and reporting and there can be no assurance that the inherent risks of offshore operations will not adversely affect our future operating results. We also depend on certain vendors for components, equipment and services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, and thereby, our results of operations. In addition, the maintenance of our fabrication facilities and our assembly facilities is subject to risks, including: • the demands of managing and coordinating workflow between geographically separate production facilities; • disruption of production in one of our facilities as a result of a slowdown or shutdown in our other facility; and • higher operating costs from managing geographically separate manufacturing facilities. We face risks from an increasing proportion of our operations and employees being located outside of the U.S. As we continue to expand our operations, an increasing number of our employees and operations are located in countries other than the U.S. The laws and governance of these countries may differ substantially from that of the U.S. and may expose us to increased risks of adverse impacts on our operations and results of operations. These risks could include: loss of protection of proprietary technology, disruption of production processes, interruption of freight channels and delivery schedules, currency exposure, financial institution failure, government expropriation, labor shortages, political unrest, and fraud. Specifically, our operating facility in Costa Rica presents risks of disruption such as government intervention, currency fluctuations, labor disputes, limited supplies of labor, power interruption, civil unrest, or war. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our manufacturing facilities are located in areas prone to natural disasters. We have a SAW manufacturing and assembly facility located in Apopka, Florida and an assembly facility for SAW products in San Jose, Costa Rica. Hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding, tornadoes, and other natural disasters are common events for Florida and Central America which could affect our operations in these areas. Further, although we have manufacturing and assembly capabilities for our Sawtek products in both Apopka, Florida and San Jose, Costa Rica, we are only capable of fabricating wafers for those products in our Apopka facility and rely on our San Jose facility for the majority of our assembly operations. As a result, any disruption to either facility would have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. In addition, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions could also affect our Costa Rica and Oregon facilities. Any disruptions from these or other natural disasters would have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. The following table indicates the approximate exposure we believe we have with respect to natural disasters: Type of Disaster Approximate Percentof Total* Location Fixed Assets Revenues Apopka, Florida H 15% - 20% 35% Bend, Oregon E, V 0% - 5% 0% Dallas, Texas H 45% - 50% 25% Hillsboro, Oregon E, V 20% - 25% 35% San Jose, Costa Rica E, V, H 10% - 15% 35% 22 Table of Contents E— Earthquake/mudslide V— Volcanic eruption H— Hurricane and/or tornado and flooding * Figures are based on revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 or net fixed assets as of December 31, 2005. Additionally, the sum may be greater than 100% due to shared risks between locations. We face risks from changes in tax regulations and a change in our Costa Rican subsidiary’s favorable tax status would have an adverse impact on our operating results. We are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. In some jurisdictions, we have employed specific business strategies to minimize our tax exposure. To the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase or our tax saving strategies could be threatened. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. For example, our subsidiary in Costa Rica operates in a free trade zone. We expect to receive a 75% exemption from Costa Rican income taxes through 2007. The Costa Rican government continues to review its policy on granting tax exemptions to companies located in free trade zones and it may change our tax status or minimize our benefit at any time. Any adverse change in the tax structure for our Costa Rican subsidiary made by the Costa Rican government would have a negative impact on our net income. During 2005 and 2004, the 75% tax exemption reduced our income tax expense by $1.9 million and $2.7 million, respectively. In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and several foreign tax authorities could assert additional taxes associated with our subsidiary due to differing interpretations of transfer pricing and other intercompany transactions. Our business may be adversely affected by acts of terrorism or war. Acts of terrorism or war could interrupt or restrict our business in several ways. We rely extensively on the use of air transportation to move our inventory between our facilities and to and from our vendors, as well as to ship finished products to our customers. If war or terrorist acts cause air transportation to be grounded or severely interrupted, our business would be adversely impacted. Additionally, war or acts of terrorism could cause existing export regulations to be changed, which could limit the extent to which we are allowed to export our products. To the extent that war or acts of terrorism also reduce customer confidence and create general economic weakness, our business would also be adversely affected. A widespread outbreak of an infectious disease or illness could negatively affect our marketing, assembly and test, design, or other operations, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers and could result in reduced demand from our customers. A widespread outbreak of an infectious disease or illness such as avian influenza could adversely affect our operations as well as demand from our customers. A number of countries in the Asia/Pacific region have experienced outbreaks of different infectious diseases and illnesses in the past. As a result of widespread outbreaks, our operations could be severely affected through reduced demand and employees could become ill or be quarantined. Our operating results could be harmed if we lose access to sole or limited sources of materials, equipment or services. We currently obtain some components, equipment and services for our products from limited or single sources, such as certain ceramic packages and chemicals. Less than 35% of our purchases are from sole sources. We purchase these components, equipment, supplies and services on a purchase order basis, do not carry significant inventories and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with these vendors. Our 23 Table of Contents requirements are relatively small compared to silicon semiconductor manufacturers. Because we often do not account for a significant part of our vendors’ business, we may not have access to sufficient capacity from these vendors in periods of high demand. If we were to change any of our sole or limited source vendors, we would be required to requalify each new vendor. Requalification could prevent or delay product shipments, which could negatively affect our results of operations. In some cases, it would be difficult to replace these suppliers and requalification could take up to 12 months. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and parts may impair our ability to produce our products on time and with acceptable yields. For example, at times in the past, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining ceramic packages and lids used in the production of bandpass filters. At other times, the acquisition of relatively simple devices, such as capacitors, has been problematic because of the large demand swings that can occur in the cellular handset market for such components. The success of these products is critical to the overall success of our business. The primary risk to our source of supply to manufacture these products is the possible bankruptcy or inability to meet delivery schedules. In addition, our reliance on these vendors may negatively affect our production if the components, equipment or services vary in reliability or quality. If we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of sufficient quantities of acceptable quality or if the prices increase, our results of operations could be harmed. Our operating results could be harmed if our subcontractors and partners are unable to fulfill our requirements. We currently utilize subcontractors for the majority of our integrated circuit and module assemblies, as well as final test. Approximately 30% of our revenues are derived from components in which we utilize subcontractors for some portion of the production process. We expect this percentage to grow as module products become a larger portion of our product revenue. There are certain risks associated with dependence on third party providers, such as minimal control over delivery scheduling, adequate capacity during demand peaks, warranty issues and protection of intellectual property. Additionally, if these subcontractors are unable to meet our needs, it could prevent or delay production shipments that could negatively affect our results of operations and our customer relationships. If we were to change any of our subcontractors, we would be required to re-qualify each new subcontractor, which could also prevent or delay product shipments that could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, our reliance on these subcontractors may negatively affect our production if the services vary in reliability or quality. If we are unable to obtain timely service of acceptable quality or if the prices increase, our results of operations could be harmed. If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur significant additional costs. The fabrication of integrated circuits and SAW filters from substrate materials and the modules containing these components is a highly complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to rework or replace the products. Our products may contain undetected defects or failures that only become evident after we commence volume shipments which we experience from time to time. Other defects or failures may also occur in the future. If such failures or defects occur, we could: • lose revenues; • incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; • experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; or • experience increased product returns or discounts. We may face fines or our facilities could be closed if we fail to comply with environmental regulations. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing process. For our manufacturing facilities, we generally provide our own manufacturing waste treatment and contract for disposal of some 24 Table of Contents materials. We are required to report usage of environmentally hazardous materials. The failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us and we could be required to suspend production or cease our operations. These regulations could require us to acquire significant equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities and harm our results of operations. Further, new environmental initiatives could affect the materials we currently use in production. New environmental regulations such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and the Reduction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (“RoHS”) directives may require us to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems. In August 2005, companies selling a broad range of electrical equipment in European countries began to be required to conform to the WEEE directives. Further, as of July 2006, those same companies, as well as component suppliers to those companies, will also need to conform to the RoHS directive. New environmental standards such as these could require us to redesign our products to comply with the standards, and require the development of compliance administration systems. We may incur significant costs to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems. Further, alternative designs may have an adverse effect on our gross profit margin. If we cannot develop compliant products timely or properly administer our compliance programs, our revenues may also decline due to lower sales, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have substantial indebtedness. We have $218.8 million of indebtedness remaining in the form of our convertible subordinated notes due in 2007. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, changes in our business; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligation under the notes. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. If our cash balance and cash flow are inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the notes or our other obligations, we would be in default under the terms thereof. Default under the indenture would permit the holders of the notes to accelerate the maturity of the notes and could cause defaults under future indebtedness we may incur. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we can not assure you that we would be able to repay amounts due in respect of the notes if payment of the notes were to be accelerated following the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the indenture. Customers may delay or cancel orders due to regulatory delays. The increasing significance of electronic communications products has increased pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for electronic communications, generally following extensive investigation of and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in the 25 Table of Contents regulatory approval process may in the future cause the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. These delays have in the past had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on our sales and our results of operations. We must improve our products and processes to remain competitive. If technologies or standards supported by our or our customers’ products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our results of operations may be materially impacted. Because of continual improvements in semiconductor technology, including those in high performance silicon technologies such as CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) where substantially more resources are invested than in other technologies such as GaAs and SAW products, we believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to improve our product and process technologies. We must also develop new technologies in a timely manner and be able to adapt our products and processes to technological changes to support emerging and established industry standards. We have and must continue to perform significant research and development into advanced material development such as GaN, and silicon carbide (“SiC”) to compete with future technologies of our competitors. These research and development efforts may not be accepted by our customers, and therefore may not achieve sustained production in the future. Further, we may not be able to improve our existing products and process technologies, develop new technologies in a timely manner or effectively support industry standards. If we fail to do so, our customers may select another GaAs, SAW or BAW product or move to an alternative technology. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not compete successfully. The markets for our products are characterized by price competition, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and heightened global competition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. We expect intensified competition from existing integrated circuit, SAW and BAW device suppliers, as well as from the entry of new competitors to our target markets and from the internal operations of some companies producing products similar to ours for their internal requirements. Competition from existing or potential competitors may increase due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • offering of new or emerging technologies in integrated circuit design using alternative materials; • offering of new or emerging technologies such as digital filtering direct conversion as alternatives to SAW filters; • mergers and acquisitions of our customers with our competitors or other entities; • longer operating histories and presence in key markets; • development of strategic relationships between our competitors; • ability to obtain raw materials at lower costs due to larger purchasing volumes or other advantageous supply relationships; • access to a wider customer base; and • access to greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. Competition is primarily based on performance elements such as speed, complexity and power dissipation, as well as price, product quality and ability to deliver products in a timely fashion. Due to the proprietary nature of our products, competition occurs almost exclusively at the system design stage. As a result, a design win by our competitors or by us typically limits further competition with respect to manufacturing a given design. Additionally, manufacturers of high performance silicon integrated circuits have achieved greater market acceptance of their existing products and technologies in some applications, as compared to GaAs. Further, we compete with both GaAs and silicon suppliers in all of our target markets. 26 Table of Contents If we fail to integrate any future acquisitions or successfully invest in privately held companies, our business will be harmed. We face risks from any future acquisitions or investments, including the following: • we may fail to merge and coordinate the operations and personnel of newly acquired companies with our existing business; • we may fail to retain the key employees required to make the operation successful; • additional complexity may affect our flexibility and ability to respond quickly to market and management issues; • we may experience difficulties integrating our financial and operating systems and maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and risk management; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; • we may not cost-effectively and rapidly incorporate the technologies we acquire; • we may not be able to cost-effectively develop commercial products using the newly acquired technology; • we may not be able to recognize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated; • we may not be able to retain the existing customers of newly acquired operations; • existing customers of the acquired operations may demand significant price reductions or other detrimental term changes as a result of the change in ownership; • our corporate culture may clash with that of the acquired businesses; and • we may incur unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. We face risks from equity investments in privately held companies, such as: • we may not realize the expected benefits associated with the investment resulting in a partial or total write-off of this investment; • additional rounds of funding may substantially dilute our position if we do not participate in the subsequent funding; • we may need to provide additional funding to support the privately held company; or • if their value of the equity investment decreases, we may realize losses on our holdings. We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and we may pursue product, technology or business acquisitions or investments in strategic partners. However, we may not successfully address these risks or any other problems that arise in connection with future acquisitions or equity investments in privately held companies. In addition to the risks above in connection with any future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities that could dilute the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, we may incur additional debt and we may be required to amortize expenses related to other intangible assets or record impairment of goodwill, all of which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we do not hire and retain key employees, our business will suffer. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing and management personnel. We also depend on our ability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified 27 Table of Contents technical employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture and development of our products and processes. We must also recruit and train employees to manufacture our products without a substantial reduction in manufacturing yields. There are many other semiconductor companies located in the communities near our facilities and, as the economy improves, it may become increasingly difficult for us to attract and retain employees. The competition for key employees is intense, and the loss of key employees could negatively affect us. Increases in salaries of technical, sales and administrative personnel may outpace productivity gains, which could result in our expenses growing at a rate that exceeds our revenue growth rate. The U.S. economy has improved in recent months, which has lead to increased production volumes and a higher absorption of fixed costs and operating expenses for our company. In addition, this economic recovery may lead to increases in the salaries of our technical, sales and administrative personnel as we try to maintain competitive and retain our employees. These increases in salaries may outpace our productivity gains and result in our expenses growing at a rate that exceeds our revenue growth rate, which could have an adverse effect on our gross profit margin. Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. Further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to produce our products may suffer if someone claims we infringe on their intellectual property. The integrated circuit, SAW and BAW device industries are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. If it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that licenses will be offered or that we would find the terms of licenses that are offered acceptable or commercially reasonable. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of products. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, whether or not the litigation results in a favorable determination. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify our customers; 28 Table of Contents • stop the manufacture, use and sale of the infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of certain processes; or • purchase licenses to the technology and/or pay royalties. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products, negotiating licenses upon reasonable terms, or either of the two solutions. These problems might not be resolved in time to avoid harming our results of operations. Further, if any third party makes a successful claim against our customers or us and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. Our ability to accurately predict revenues and inventory needs could deteriorate if we generate additional sales through inventory hubbing distribution facilities. Several of our larger customers have requested that we send our products to independent warehouses known as inventory hubbing distribution facilities to assist them in inventory control. We do not recognize revenues from these hubbing arrangements until the customer takes delivery of the inventory and title of the goods passes to the customer. As a result, increased shipments to these facilities make it more difficult for us to predict short-term revenues and inventory consumption as customers can take delivery of the products with little lead-time. In addition, stocking requirements at hubbing facilities tends to reduce inventory turns and increase working capital requirements. Our business may suffer due to risks associated with international sales. Our sales outside of the U.S. during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately 68%, 58% and 56%, respectively. As a result of having a significant amount of sales outside of the U.S., we face inherent risks from these sales, including: • imposition of government controls; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties related to the collection of receivables from international customers; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • unfavorable tax consequences; • difficulty obtaining distribution and support; • political instability; and • tariffs and other trade barriers. In addition, due to the technological advantages provided by GaAs integrated circuits in many military applications, the Office of Export Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce must license all of our sales outside of North America. We are also required to obtain licenses from that agency for sales of our SAW products to customers in certain countries. If we fail to obtain these licenses or experience delays in obtaining these licenses in the future, our results of operations could be harmed. Also, because a majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the dollar would increase the price in local currencies of our products and make our products less price competitive. We may be subject to a securities class action suit if our stock price falls. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, some stockholders may file securities class action litigation. For example, in 1994, a stockholder class action lawsuit was filed against 29 Table of Contents us, our underwriters and some of our officers, directors and investors, which alleged that we, our underwriters and certain of our officers, directors and investors intentionally misled the investing public regarding our financial prospects. We settled the action and recorded a special charge of $1.4 million associated with the settlement of this lawsuit and related legal expenses, net of accruals, in 1998. Additionally, in 2003, a class action complaint was purportedly filed on behalf of purchasers of Sawtek’s stock between January 2000 and May 24, 2001, against Sawtek, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, and former officers of Sawtek and the Company. Although the claim was dismissed with prejudice in October 2005, we incurred legal fees and our management spent time defending the claims. Future claims, if any, could harm our operating results and further distract our management from running our business. Our stock will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of semiconductor companies have been especially volatile. The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future. For example, our common stock price has fluctuated from a high of approximately $5.10 to a low of approximately $2.88 during 2005. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Further, high stock price volatility could result in a higher stock-based compensation expense charge. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions, which may deter or prevent a takeover attempt. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. These provisions include: Cumulative voting. Our stockholders are entitled to cumulate their votes for directors. Stockholder proposals and nominations. Our stockholders must give advance notice, generally 120 days prior to the relevant meeting, to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. Stockholder rights plan. We may trigger our stockholder rights plan in the event our board of directors does not agree to an acquisition proposal. The rights plan may make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. Preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to determine what rights, preferences and privileges such shares have. No action by our stockholders is necessary before our board of directors can issue the preferred stock. Our board of directors could use the preferred stock to make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. Delaware anti-takeover statute. The Delaware anti-takeover law restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The Delaware statute makes it harder for our company to be acquired without the consent of our board of directors and management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 