Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is extremely risky. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose part or all of your investment. Other factors besides those listed here could also adversely affect us. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • cancellation or delay of customer orders or shipments; • market acceptance of our products and those of our customers; • market acceptance of new/developing technologies that perform similar to our products; • variability of the life cycles of our customers’ products; • variations in manufacturing yields; • timing of announcements and introduction of new products by us, our customers and our competitors; • changes in the mix of products we sell; • declining average sales prices for our products; • changes in manufacturing capacity and variations in the utilization of that capacity; • variations in operating expenses; • variations in the costs of assembly and test services; • variations in product warranty claims; • willingness of customers to accept manufacturing process changes that reduce our costs to levels that result in reasonable gross margins; • impairments of our assets; • the long sales cycles associated with our products; • the timing and level of product and process development costs; • availability of materials used in the assembly of our products; • variations in raw material availability, quality and costs; • delays in new process qualification or delays in transferring processes; • additional costs or delays in increasing manufacturing capacity needed to support increasing customer demand; • the timing and level of nonrecurring engineering revenues and expenses relating to customer-specific products; • availability of assembly and test service capacity at our factory’s service providers; • significant changes in our own inventory levels as well as our customers’; and • delivery terms requiring that we cover shipment and insurance costs as well as import/export duty costs. We expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these and other factors. Any unfavorable changes in these or other factors could cause our results of operations to suffer as they have in the past. Due to potential fluctuations, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, if our operating results are not within the market’s expectations, then our stock price may fall. The public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. New competitive products and technologies brought into the market could reduce demand for our current product offerings. Our business may be adversely impacted if we fail to successfully introduce new products or to gain our customers’ acceptance of those new products. The markets for electronic communications applications in which we participate are subject to intense competition, rapid technological change, and short product life cycles. It is critical for companies such as ours to continually and quickly develop new products to meet the changing needs of these markets. If we fail to develop new products to meet our customers’ needs on a timely basis, we will not be able to effectively compete in these markets. Further, new products could be introduced by competitors that have competitive and technological advantages over our current product line-up. For example, new products have been introduced that use a direct conversion architecture in wireless phones. Direct conversion architecture has been available since the mid-1990’s for GSM phones and wireless phone manufacturers are increasingly using this technology in their new handsets. This technology reduces the number of components needed in the receiver portion of wireless phones, including our SAW IF filter products. As a result of the adoption of direct conversion technology, the sale of our IF filters declined approximately 79% in 2005 as compared to 2004, and during 2006, our handset revenue from IF filters diminished to a negligible amount. Other competitive filtering technologies, including BAW and film bulk acoustic resonator (“FBAR”), a form of BAW, have been introduced and have gained market acceptance in certain applications. Further, continual improvements in semiconductor technology, such as CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor), and development of these products could also take market share from our products. We are actively pursuing new products such as RF filters, duplexers, power amplifiers, RF modules and SAW/BAW filtering to address the potential of lost of revenues from new/developing technologies. If we fail to design and produce these products in a manner acceptable to our customers, or have incorrectly anticipated our customers’ demand for these types of products, our business, financial condition and results of operation will suffer. Our business will be adversely impacted if we do not continue to gain market acceptance of our wireless handset module products or develop effective manufacturing processes to produce them. Our strategy for wireless phone products depends in large part upon the success of our design and marketing of wireless phone modules. Wireless phone modules represent the incorporation of some or all of the components of the wireless phone radio into a single product. If we are unable to design these modules in a manner acceptable to our customers, or have incorrectly anticipated our customers’ demand for these products, our operating results will be adversely affected. Manufacturing RF module products represents a departure from our traditional component manufacturing business. Production of module products entails different manufacturing and planning processes, costs, yields, and lead times. If we fail to successfully transition manufacturing resources to produce these products or are unable to do so cost-effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our initial experience is that increased module sales as a percent of our total sales has a negative impact on our gross margins due to our production costs. If we are unable to reduce the costs of producing modules, our total gross margin will decrease as the proportion of module sales increase and our operating results may decline. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results may suffer due to fluctuations in demand for semiconductors and electronic communications components. From time to time, our wireless handsets, broadband, base station and military markets have experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles, capital spending cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The cyclical nature of these markets has led to significant imbalances in demand, inventory levels and production capacity. It has also accelerated the decrease of average selling prices per unit. We have experienced, and may experience again, periodic fluctuations in our financial results because of these or other industry-wide conditions. For example, if demand for communications applications were to decrease substantially, demand for the integrated circuits and modules, components and other products in these applications would also decline, which would negatively affect our operating results. We depend on the continued growth of communications markets and cost-effective selling prices. We derive our product revenues from sales of products and services for electronic communication applications. These markets are characterized by the following: • cyclical demand; • intense competition; • rapid technological changes; and • short product life cycles, especially in the wireless phone market. The electronic communications markets are currently above their cyclical lows of the recent past; however there is no guarantee that these markets will resume historical growth rates. Further, as is characteristic of the integrated circuit and acoustic filter component industries, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products’ life cycles and we expect this pattern to continue. To offset these decreasing selling prices, we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products. We try to introduce new products with similar functionality of existing products but with lower costs by design, or new products which incorporate advanced features and can be sold at higher average selling prices. We work closely with our suppliers to obtain continual improvement on pricing of key raw materials and components. As more of our product offerings migrate toward integrated assemblies requiring the acquisition of outside manufactured components, we will have to work effectively with our suppliers to reduce the total cost of the respective bills of material. If the current market demand trend does not continue to improve, and/or if there is continued pressure on average selling prices and our cost reduction efforts are not effective, our operating results could suffer. Additionally, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards. If we are unable to successfully design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers in a timely manner, or if our customers’ products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, if we are unable to improve existing yields in a timely manner, or prevent yield issues on future new product introductions, we may not be able to achieve gross profit targets that meet market expectations which could negatively affect our stock price. Our operating results could be harmed if we fail to effectively manage our growth. Our business and operations have grown substantially over the past year and we hope to continue this trend in the future. Maintaining profitability during a period of expansion will depend, among other things, on our ability to manage effectively our operations, particularly our manufacturing yields. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents In the event we are not able to satisfy a significant increase in demand from any one of our customers or our customers in total we may not be viewed as a dependable high volume supplier and our customers will source their demand elsewhere. In some areas of our business, we have customers, particularly those in the wireless handset market, who ship their completed products in very large unit volumes. These customers may require large inventories of our products on short notice. If we are unable to support our customers when their production volume increases, we may be considered an undependable supplier and our customer may seek alternate suppliers for products which we may have anticipated producing over an extended period of time and in large quantities. In 2006, we experienced such demand at times and were not able meet all of our customers’ requests. As a result, we have increased the capacity at our Hillsboro facility to address this issue; however we may still be unable to support our customers’ needs. If our customers consider us to be an undependable supplier, our operating results could be adversely affected as we may not be able to find alternative sources of revenue. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenue. If we were to lose any of these customers, our revenue could decrease significantly. We typically have customers who generate more than 10% of our revenues for a given period. For example, in 2006, Motorola and Samsung each represented more than 10% of our revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these customers in the future and any significant loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the consolidation of our customers may result in increased customer concentration and/or the potential loss of customers, which could also negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we build products to support high volume forecasts that never materialize into orders, we may have to write-off excess and obsolete inventory or reduce our prices. During 2006 we increased our inventory levels to meet forecasted future demand. If the forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders for these products, we may be required to write-off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory to fair value, based on a reduced sales prices. A write-off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have a material impact on our operating results. Further, if we are unable to improve inventory turns and generate targeted operating cash flow projections, we may not satisfy market expectations which could negatively affect our stock price. Our financial statements in 2006 include significant material expenses related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). These expenses may fluctuate greatly in the future due to a number of estimates and assumptions used in the pricing model. On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), which requires us to recognize share-based compensation expense in our financial statements based on the fair value determined for our stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan. Previously we applied SFAS No. 123, which allowed us to apply the provisions of APB No. 25 and provide pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) per share disclosures for stock-based payments as if the expense had been recognized. We have elected to apply the modified prospective approach in our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and thus have not restated our prior results to include stock-based payment expense. We use the Black-Scholes model for the stock-based payment expense calculation to determine their fair value, which includes a number of estimates including the expected lives of the options, the volatility of the prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and interest rates. A significant change in any of these estimates, or in our option pricing model, could have a material impact on our financial statements. In addition, although we have provided supplemental data to assist investors in comparing our results after January 1, 2006 with prior results, 19 Table of Contents investors may not be able to assess improvements or declines in our operating results absent the impact of stock-based compensation expense, and our stock price may be adversely affected. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive and costly evaluation of their internal controls. As a result, as of December 31, 2006, we were required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditor attest to our evaluation. At December 31, 2006, management and our auditors did not identify any material weaknesses over internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ attestation of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to regulatory investigations or sanctions, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our revenues are at risk if we do not introduce new products and/or decrease costs. The production of GaAs integrated circuits has been and continues to be more costly than the production of silicon devices. Although we have reduced production costs through decreasing raw wafer costs, increasing wafer size and fabrication yields, decreasing die size and achieving higher volumes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to decrease production costs. Further, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products’ lives and we expect them to continue to do so. To offset these decreases, we rely primarily on achieving yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products and on introducing new products that can be manufactured at lower costs. However, we believe our costs of producing GaAs integrated circuits will continue to exceed the costs associated with the production of silicon devices. As a result, we must offer devices which provide superior performance to that of silicon such that the perceived price/performance of our products is competitive with silicon devices and there can be no assurance that we can continue to identify markets which require performance superior to that offered by silicon solutions or that we will continue to offer products which provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differentials. We believe our future success depends, in part, on our timely development and introduction of new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and adequately address customer requirements. The success of new product and process introductions depends on several factors, including: • proper selection of products and processes; • successful and timely completion of product and process development and commercialization; • market acceptance of our own new products, or of our customers’ new products; • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; • our ability to offer new products at competitive prices; and • managing the cost of raw materials and manufacturing services. Our product and process development efforts may not be successful and our new products or processes may not achieve market acceptance. To the extent that our cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, our results of operations could suffer. 20 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if systems manufacturers do not use components made of GaAs or the other alternative materials we utilize. Silicon semiconductor technologies are the dominant process technologies for integrated circuits and the performance of silicon integrated circuits continues to improve. System designers may be reluctant to adopt our products because of: • their unfamiliarity with designing systems with our products; • their concerns related to manufacturing costs and yields; • their unfamiliarity with our design and manufacturing processes; and • uncertainties about the relative cost effectiveness of our products compared to high performance silicon components. Systems manufacturers may not use GaAs components because the production of GaAs integrated circuits has been, and continues to be, more costly than the production of silicon devices. Systems manufacturers may also be reluctant to rely on a jointly produced product because future supplies may depend on our continued good relationships with those vendors. As a result, we must offer devices that provide superior performance to that of traditional silicon based devices. In addition, customers may be reluctant to rely on a smaller company like ours for critical components. We cannot be certain that additional systems manufacturers will design our products into their systems or that the companies that have utilized our products will continue to do so in the future. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our results of operations would suffer. If we fail to sell a high volume of products, our operating results will be harmed. Because large portions of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, high manufacturing volumes are critical to our operating results. If we fail to achieve acceptable manufacturing volumes or experience product shipment delays, our results of operations could be harmed. During periods of decreased demand, our high fixed manufacturing costs negatively affect our results of operations. We base our expense levels in part on our expectations of future orders and these expense levels are predominantly fixed in the short-term. If we receive fewer customer orders than expected or if our customers delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to reduce our manufacturing costs in the short-term and our operating results would be harmed. In addition, we are selling products to an increasing number of our customers on a consignment basis, which can limit our ability to forecast revenues and adjust our costs in the short-term, if appropriate. Underutilization of our manufacturing facilities and additional capital expenditures may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have underutilized our manufacturing lines. This excess capacity means we incur increased fixed costs in our products relative to the revenues we generate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. If we are unable to improve utilization levels at these facilities and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, we have increased our capacity in certain facilities to meet current customer demands. These facilities currently have limitations in certain areas of manufacturing and we may need to invest in more capital equipment to relieve these manufacturing limitations and allow for greater capacity. If we acquire more equipment, our fixed costs will increase. Further, if customer demand later falls, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents If we do not sell our customer-specific products in large volumes, our operating results may be harmed. We manufacture a substantial portion of our products to address the needs of individual customers. Frequent product introductions by systems manufacturers make our future success dependent on our ability to select development projects which will result in sufficient volumes to enable us to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. Because customer-specific products are developed for unique applications, we expect that some of our current and future customer-specific products may never be produced in sufficient volume and may impair our ability to cover our fixed manufacturing costs. Furthermore, if customers cancel or delay orders for these customer-specific products, our inventory of these products may become unmarketable or obsolete, which would negatively affect our operating results. In addition, if we experience delays in completing designs, fail to obtain development contracts from customers whose products are successful, or fail to have our product designed into the next generation product of existing volume production customers, our revenues could be harmed. We face risks of a loss of revenues if contracts with the U.S. government or military contractors are canceled or delayed. In 2006 we received approximately 10% of our revenues from the U.S. government or from prime contractors on U.S. government sponsored programs principally for military applications. These military programs with the U.S. government generally have long lead times such as the DARPA contract and F-22 Raptor and Joint Strike Fighter aircraft programs. They are also subject to delays or cancellation. Changes in military funding or the loss of a significant military program or contract would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Further, spending on military contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the U.S. government. We believe our government and military contracts in the recent past have been negatively impacted by the war in Iraq as the government allocated more funding to the war and less on new development and long-term programs, such as the ones in which we participate. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes, the maintenance of our fabrication facilities and the processes of our vendors. The fabrication of integrated circuits, particularly those made of GaAs, is a highly complex and precise process. Our integrated circuits are primarily manufactured on wafers made of GaAs while our SAW filters are currently manufactured primarily on LiNbO3, LiTaO3 and quartz wafers and our BAW wafers are currently manufactured on sapphire or silicon wafers. We refer to the proportion of final components that have been processed, assembled and tested relative to the gross number of components that could be constructed from the raw materials as our manufacturing yield. Compared to the manufacturing of silicon integrated circuits, GaAs technology is less mature and more difficult to design and manufacture within specifications in large volume. In addition, the more brittle nature of GaAs wafers can result in lower manufacturing yields than with silicon wafers. Further, during manufacturing, each wafer is processed to contain numerous integrated circuits or SAW/BAW filters which may also result in lower manufacturing yields. As a result, we may reject or be unable to sell a substantial percentage of wafers or the components on a given wafer because of: • minute impurities; • difficulties in the fabrication process, such as failure of special equipment, operator error or power outages; • defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer; • electrical and/or optical performance; • wafer breakage; or • other factors. 22 Table of Contents In the past we have experienced lower than expected manufacturing yields, which have delayed product shipments and negatively impacted our results of operations. We may experience similar difficulty in maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. Further, the transfer of production of a product to a different facility often requires the qualification of the facility by certain customers. There can be no certainty that such changes and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our results of operations. Further, offshore operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including delays in transportation, changes in governmental policies, tariffs, import/export regulations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates in addition to geographic limitations on management controls and reporting and there can be no assurance that the inherent risks of offshore operations will not adversely affect our future operating results. We also depend on certain vendors for components, equipment and services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, and thereby, our results of operations. In addition, the maintenance of our fabrication facilities and our assembly facilities is subject to risks, including: • the demands of managing and coordinating workflow between geographically separate production facilities; • disruption of production in one of our facilities as a result of a slowdown or shutdown in our other facility; and • higher operating costs from managing geographically separate manufacturing facilities. We face risks from a proportion of our operations and employees being located outside of the U.S. A number of our employees and operations are located in countries other than the U.S. We also employ contractors in other countries to perform certain packaging and test operations for us. The laws and governance of these countries may differ substantially from that of the U.S. and may expose us to increased risks of adverse impacts on our operations and results of operations. These risks could include: loss of protection of proprietary technology, disruption of production processes, interruption of freight channels and delivery schedules, currency exposure, financial institution failure, government expropriation, labor shortages, political unrest, local tax laws and fraud. For example, our operating facility in Costa Rica presents risks of disruption such as government intervention, currency fluctuations, labor disputes, limited supplies of labor, power interruption, civil unrest, or war. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Some of our manufacturing facilities are located in areas prone to natural disasters. We have a SAW manufacturing and assembly facility located in Apopka, Florida and an assembly facility for SAW products in San Jose, Costa Rica. Hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding, tornadoes, and other natural disasters are common events for Florida and Central America that could affect our operations in these areas. Other natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tornadoes and flooding could also affect our facilities in Oregon and Texas. Any disruptions from these or other natural disasters would have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. The following table indicates the approximate exposure we believe we have with respect to natural disasters: Type of Disaster Approximate Percent of Total* Location Fixed Assets Revenues Apopka, Florida H 15 % 25 % Bend, Oregon E, V 0 % 0 % Dallas, Texas H 45 % 25 % Hillsboro, Oregon E, V 30 % 50 % San Jose, Costa Rica E, V, H 10 % 25 % E— Earthquake/mudslide V— Volcanic eruption H— Hurricane and/or tornado and flooding * Figures are based on revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 or net fixed assets as of December 31, 2006. Additionally, the sum may be greater than 100% due to shared risks between locations. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which would affect our financial position. As a corporation with operations both in the United States and abroad, we are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous foreign tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize recorded deferred tax assets; • changes in contingencies related to taxes, interest or penalties resulting from internal, accounting firm and governmental tax reviews and audits; • tax holidays; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws, specifically transfer pricing, permanent establishment and other intercompany transactions. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our business may be adversely affected by acts of terrorism or war. Acts of terrorism or war could interrupt or restrict our business in several ways. We rely extensively on the use of air transportation to move our inventory between our facilities and to and from our vendors, as well as to ship finished products to our customers. If war or terrorist acts cause air transportation to be grounded or severely interrupted, our business would be adversely impacted. Additionally, war or acts of terrorism could cause existing export regulations to be changed, which could limit the extent to which we 24 Table of Contents are allowed to export our products. To the extent that war or acts of terrorism also reduce customer confidence and create general economic weakness, our business would also be adversely affected. Further, our products are sold to manufacturers who sell their devices around the world. If acts of terrorism or war reduce the demand for these devices in certain areas, our results could suffer. A widespread outbreak of an infectious disease or illness could negatively affect our marketing, assembly and test, design, or other operations, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers and could result in reduced demand from our customers. A widespread outbreak of an infectious disease or illness such as avian influenza could adversely affect our operations as well as demand from our customers. A number of countries in the Asia/Pacific region have experienced outbreaks of different infectious diseases and illnesses in the past. Many of our customers operate facilities in these areas and some of our assembly and test subcontractors are located in these regions. As a result of widespread outbreaks, our operations could be severely affected through reduced demand from customers. Further, employees of our customers’ and subcontractors’ could become ill, or be quarantined, and they could suspend operations. Our operating results could be harmed if we lose access to sole or limited sources of materials, equipment or services. We currently obtain a portion of the components, equipment and services for our products from limited or single sources, such as certain ceramic packages and chemicals. We purchase these components, equipment, supplies and services on a purchase order basis, do not carry significant inventories and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with these vendors. Our requirements are relatively small compared to silicon semiconductor manufacturers. Because we often do not account for a significant part of our vendors’ business, we may not have access to sufficient capacity from these vendors in periods of high demand. If we were to change any of our sole or limited source vendors, we would be required to requalify each new vendor. Requalification could prevent or delay product shipments, which could negatively affect our results of operations. In some cases, it would be difficult to replace these suppliers and requalification could take up to 12 months. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and parts may impair our ability to produce our products on time and with acceptable yields. For example, at times in the past, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining ceramic packages and lids used in the production of bandpass filters. At other times, the acquisition of relatively simple devices, such as capacitors, has been problematic because of the large demand swings that can occur in the handset market for such components. The success of these products is critical to the overall success of our business. The primary risk surrounding our source of supply to manufacture these products is the possible bankruptcy of our suppliers or their inability to meet our delivery schedules. In addition, our reliance on these vendors may negatively affect our production if the components, equipment or services vary in reliability or quality. If we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of sufficient quantities of acceptable quality or if the prices increase, our results of operations could be harmed. Our operating results could be harmed if our subcontractors and partners are unable to fulfill our requirements. We currently use subcontractors for the majority of our integrated circuit and module assemblies, as well as final product testing. Approximately 60% of our revenues are derived from components in which we utilize subcontractors for some portion of the production process. We expect this percentage to grow as module products become a larger portion of our product revenues. There are certain risks associated with dependence on third party providers, such as minimal control over delivery scheduling, adequate capacity during demand peaks, warranty issues and protection of intellectual property. Additionally, if these subcontractors are unable to meet our needs, it could prevent or delay production shipments that could 25 Table of Contents negatively affect our results of operations and our customer relationships. If we were to change any of our subcontractors, we would be required to re-qualify each new subcontractor, which could also prevent or delay product shipments that could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, our reliance on these subcontractors may negatively affect our production if the services vary in reliability or quality. If we are unable to obtain timely service of acceptable quality or if the prices increase, our results of operations could be harmed. If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur significant additional costs. The fabrication of integrated circuits and SAW/BAW filters from substrate materials and the modules containing these components is a highly complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to rework or replace the products. Our products may contain undetected defects or failures that only become evident after we commence volume shipments, which we may experience from time to time. Other defects or failures may also occur in the future. If such failures or defects occur, we could: • lose revenues; • incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; • experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; or • experience increased product returns or discounts. We may face fines or our facilities could be closed if we fail to comply with environmental regulations. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing process. For our manufacturing facilities, we generally provide our own manufacturing waste treatment and contract for disposal of some materials. We are required to report usage of environmentally hazardous materials and the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us and we could be required to suspend production or cease our operations. These regulations could require us to acquire significant equipment or to incur other substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities and harm our results of operations. Further, new environmental initiatives could affect the materials we currently use in production. Environmental regulations such as the WEEE and RoHS directives may require us to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems. Various countries have begun to require companies selling a broad range of electrical equipment to conform to regulations such as the WEEE and RoHS directives and we expect additional countries and locations to adopt similar regulations in the future. New environmental standards such as these could require us to redesign our products in order to comply with the standards, and require the development of compliance administration systems. We have already invested significant resources into developing compliance tracking systems, and further investments may be required. Additionally, we may incur significant costs to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems; however alternative designs may have an adverse effect on our gross profit margin. If we cannot develop compliant products timely or properly administer our compliance programs, our revenues may also decline due to lower sales, which would adversely affect our operating results. Customers may delay or cancel orders due to regulatory delays. The increasing significance of electronic communications products has increased pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for electronic communications, generally following extensive investigation of and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in the 26 Table of Contents regulatory approval process may in the future cause the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. These delays have in the past had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on our sales and our results of operations. We have substantial indebtedness at December 31, 2006 and could incur additional debt in the future. At December 31, 2006, we had $218.8 million of indebtedness remaining in the form of our convertible subordinated notes. The notes were due on March 1, 2007 and at that time we paid the balance of the debt and accrued interest from our cash reserves. We may incur additional debt in the future, which could be at substantially different terms. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able obtain debt, or to meet debt service obligations once debt is obtained. The use of approximately $223.1 million to retire our convertible subordinated notes substantially reduced our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities which were $373.2 million as of December 31, 2006. If we do not have adequate amounts of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to fund our working capital needs we may be required to obtain debt or sell additional common stock to expand our business or to satisfy short-term cash needs. We must improve our products and processes to remain competitive. If technologies or standards that are supported by either our products or by our customers’ products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our results of operations may be materially impacted. Because of continual improvements in semiconductor technology, including those in high performance silicon technologies such as CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) where substantially more resources are invested than in other technologies such as GaAs and SAW products, we believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to improve our product and process technologies. We must also develop new technologies in a timely manner and be able to adapt our products and processes to technological changes to support emerging and established industry standards. We have and must continue to perform significant research and development into advanced material development such as GaN, and silicon carbide (“SiC”) to compete with future technologies of our competitors. These research and development efforts may not be accepted by our customers, and therefore may not achieve sustained production in the future. Further, we may not be able to improve our existing products and process technologies, or be able to develop new technologies in a timely manner or effectively support industry standards. If we fail to do so, our customers may select another GaAs, SAW or BAW product, or even move to an alternative technology. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not compete successfully. The markets for our products are characterized by price competition, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and heightened global competition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. We expect intensified competition from existing integrated circuit, SAW and BAW device suppliers, as well as from the entry of new competitors to our target markets and from the internal operations of some companies producing products similar to ours for their internal requirements. Competition from existing or potential competitors may increase due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • offering of new or emerging technologies in integrated circuit design using alternative materials; • offering of new or emerging technologies such as digital filtering direct conversion as alternatives to SAW filters; • mergers and acquisitions of our customers with our competitors or other entities; • longer operating histories and presence in key markets; 27 Table of Contents • development of strategic relationships between, or mergers of, our competitors; • ability to obtain raw materials at lower costs due to larger purchasing volumes or other advantageous supply relationships; • access to a wider customer base; and • access to greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. Competition is primarily based on performance elements such as speed, complexity and power dissipation, as well as price, product quality and ability to deliver products in a timely fashion. Due to the proprietary nature of our products, competition occurs almost exclusively at the system design stage. As a result, a design win by our competitors or by us typically limits further competition with respect to manufacturing a given design. Additionally, manufacturers of high performance silicon integrated circuits have achieved greater market acceptance of their existing products and technologies in some applications, as compared to GaAs. Further, we compete with both GaAs and silicon suppliers in all of our target markets. If we fail to integrate any future acquisitions or if we unsuccessfully invest in privately held companies, our business will be harmed. We face risks from any future acquisitions or investments, including the following: • we may fail to merge and coordinate the operations and personnel of newly acquired companies with our existing business; • we may fail to retain the key employees required to make the operation successful; • additional complexity may affect our flexibility and ability to respond quickly to market and management issues; • we may experience difficulties integrating our financial and operating systems and maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and risk management; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; • we may not cost-effectively and rapidly incorporate the technologies we acquire; • we may not be able to cost-effectively develop commercial products using the newly acquired technology; • we may not be able to recognize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated; • we may not be able to retain the existing customers of newly acquired operations; • existing customers of the acquired operations may demand significant price reductions or other detrimental term changes as a result of the change in ownership; • our corporate culture may clash with that of the acquired businesses; and • we may incur unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. We face risks from equity investments in privately held companies, such as: • we may not realize the expected benefits associated with the investment resulting in a partial or total write-off of this investment; • additional rounds of funding may substantially dilute our position if we do not participate in the subsequent funding; 28 Table of Contents • we may need to provide additional funding to support the privately held company; or • if the value of the equity investment decreases, we may realize losses on our holdings. We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and we may pursue product, technology or business acquisitions or investments in strategic partners. However, we may not successfully address these risks or any other problems that arise in connection with future acquisitions or equity investments in privately held companies. In addition to the risks above in connection with any future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities that could dilute the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, we may incur additional debt and we may be required to amortize expenses related to other intangible assets or record impairment of goodwill, all of which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we do not hire and retain key employees, our business will suffer. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing and management personnel. We also depend on our ability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified technical employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture and development of our products and processes. We must also recruit and train employees to manufacture our products without a substantial reduction in manufacturing yields. There are many other semiconductor companies located in the communities near our facilities and, as the economy improves, it may become increasingly difficult for us to attract and retain employees. The competition for key employees is intense, and the loss of key employees could negatively affect us. Increases in salaries of technical, sales and administrative personnel may outpace productivity gains, which could result in our expenses growing at a rate that exceeds our revenue growth rate. The U.S. economy and the demand for our products improved 2006, which led to increased production volumes and a higher absorption of fixed costs and operating expenses for our company. In addition, this economic recovery has led to increases in the salaries of our technical, sales and administrative personnel. As we try to remain competitive and retain our employees and increase salaries, these increases may outpace our productivity gains and result in our expenses growing at a rate that exceeds our revenue growth rate, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. Further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 Table of Contents Our ability to produce our products may suffer if someone claims we infringe on their intellectual property. The integrated circuit, SAW and BAW device industries are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. If it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that licenses will be offered or that we would find the terms of licenses that are offered acceptable or commercially reasonable. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of products. For example, in 2006, we received notice that a claim alleging patent infringement had been filed against us by StratEdge. Although we deny any wrongdoing, we paid substantial legal fees in defending ourselves. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, whether or not the litigation results in a favorable determination. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify our customers; • stop the manufacture, use and sale of the infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of certain processes; or • purchase licenses to the technology and/or pay royalties. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products or negotiating licenses upon reasonable terms, as the case may be. These problems might not be resolved in time to avoid harming our results of operations. Further, if any third party makes a successful claim against our customers or us and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. Our ability to accurately predict revenues and inventory needs could deteriorate if we generate additional sales through inventory hubbing distribution facilities. Several of our larger customers have requested that we send our products to independent warehouses known as inventory hubbing distribution facilities to assist them with their inventory control. We do not recognize revenues from these hubbing arrangements until the customer takes delivery of the inventory and title of the goods passes to the customer. As a result, increased shipments to these facilities make it more difficult for us to predict short-term revenues and inventory consumption as customers can take delivery of the products with little or no lead-time. In addition, stocking requirements at hubbing facilities tends to reduce inventory turns, increases working capital requirements and increases the possibility of excess, obsolete and inventory loss issues. Our business may suffer due to risks associated with international sales. Our sales outside of the U.S. during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately 60%, 68% and 58%, respectively. As a result of having a significant amount of sales outside of the U.S., we face inherent risks from these sales, including: • imposition of government controls; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties related to the collection of receivables from international customers; 30 Table of Contents • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • unfavorable tax consequences; • difficulty obtaining distribution and support; • political instability; and • tariffs and other trade barriers. In addition, due to the technological advantages provided by GaAs integrated circuits in many military applications, the Office of Export Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce must license all of our sales outside of the U.S. We are also required to obtain licenses from that agency for sales of our SAW products to customers in certain countries. If we fail to obtain these licenses or experience delays in obtaining these licenses in the future, our results of operations could be harmed. Also, because a majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the dollar would increase the price in local currencies of our products and make our products less price competitive. We may be subject to a securities class action suit if our stock price falls. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, some stockholders may file securities class action litigation. For example, in 1994, a stockholder class action lawsuit was filed against us, our underwriters and some of our officers, directors and investors, which alleged that we, our underwriters and certain of our officers, directors and investors intentionally misled the investing public regarding our financial prospects. We settled the action and recorded a special charge of $1.4 million associated with the settlement of this lawsuit and related legal expenses, net of accruals, in 1998. Additionally, in 2003, a class action complaint was purportedly filed on behalf of purchasers of the stock of Sawtek, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary between January 2000 and May 24, 2001, against Sawtek and former officers of Sawtek and the Company. Although the claim was dismissed with prejudice in October 2005, our management spent time defending the claims and we incurred legal fees to defend ourselves. Future claims, if any, could harm our operating results, and we may incur significant legal fees defending these claims. Further, defending these claims distracts our management from running our business. Our stock will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of semiconductor companies have been especially volatile. The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future. For example, our common stock price has fluctuated from a high of approximately $6.07 to a low of approximately $3.70 during the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2006. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Further, high stock price volatility could result in higher stock-based compensation expense charges. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions, which may deter or prevent a takeover attempt. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. These provisions include: Cumulative voting. Our stockholders are entitled to cumulate their votes for directors. 31 Table of Contents Stockholder proposals and nominations. Our stockholders must give advance notice, generally 120 days prior to the relevant meeting, to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. Stockholder rights plan. We may trigger our stockholder rights plan in the event our board of directors does not agree to an acquisition proposal. The rights plan may make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. Preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to determine what rights, preferences and privileges such shares have. No action by our stockholders is necessary before our board of directors can issue the preferred stock. Our board of directors could use the preferred stock to make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. Delaware anti-takeover statute. The Delaware anti-takeover law restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The Delaware statute makes it harder for our company to be acquired without the consent of our board of directors and management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 