ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in our stock should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with any investment in our stock. Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general economic market conditions and industry conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur. Accordingly, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Our operating results are difficult to predict, and fluctuations may cause volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Given the nature of the markets in which we compete, our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict for many reasons, including the following: •Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis, and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. •We incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components and enter into development, incur sales and marketing expenditures, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. In the event we acquire too much inventory for certain products, the risk of future inventory write-downs increases. Conversely, in the event we have inadequate inventory to meet the demand for particular products, we may miss significant revenue opportunities or incur significant expenses such as air freight, costs for expediting shipments, and other negative variances in our manufacturing processes as we attempt to make up for the shortfall. When a significant portion of our revenue is derived from new products, forecasting the appropriate volumes of production is even more difficult. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Economic conditions may materially adversely affect the Company. Our results of operations and financial performance depend significantly on continued improvement in worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty regarding the global economic recovery continues to pose risks to our business. Reductions in spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, and strength or weakness of the economies of sovereign nations around the world may have a material negative effect on demand for our products. Other factors that influence demand include job loss and creation, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors have had a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results and may continue to have such an effect in the future if economic conditions do not improve. Our profitability is very sensitive to the level of revenues and, in particular, to revenues from our highest margin products, which have historically been corded OCC products for contact center applications. Demand for our products is cyclical with respect to economic cycles, and our OCC business in total contracted when the U.S. recession and global economic slowdown manifested itself in late calendar 2008. During each of the quarters of fiscal 2011, we experienced revenue growth over the same respective quarters in fiscal 2010, and our revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 are near pre-recessionary levels. Although we have experienced revenue growth from the decline in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, there is no assurance that the economy will fully recover or that there will not be another economic slowdown or downturn. If worldwide economic conditions do not improve or if they weaken below current levels, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. Failure to meet our anticipated demand projections could create excess levels of inventory, which would result in additional reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, negatively impacting our financial results. Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. Further, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the Great Britain Pound (“GBP”). We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposure for the future 12 month period. Although we have employed these hedging techniques to minimize these risks, we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If the Euro and GBP fall against the U.S. Dollar, our revenues, gross profit and profitability in the future could be negatively affected. 11Table of Contents See also our risk titled “We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.” The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to effectively market our UC products, and our business could be materially adversely affected if markets do not develop as we expect. We compete in the business market for the sale of our office and contact center products. We believe that our greatest long-term opportunity for profit growth is in the UC office market, and our foremost strategic objective for this segment is to increase headset adoption. To this end, we are investing in creating new products that are more appealing in functionality and design as well as targeting certain vertical segments to increase sales. We continue to believe that the implementation of UC technologies by large corporations will be a significant long-term driver of office headset adoption, and, as a result, a key long-term driver of revenue and product growth. UC is the integration of voice and video-based communications systems enhanced with software applications and Internet Protocol (“IP”) networks. It may include the integration of devices and media associated with a variety of business workflows and applications, including e-mail, instant messaging, presence, audio, video and web conferencing, and unified messaging. UC seeks to provide seamless connectivity and user experience for enterprise workers regardless of their location and environment, improving overall business efficiency and providing more effective collaboration among an increasingly distributed workforce. Despite weak economic conditions, trial deployments of UC solutions and headsets continue to grow, with some evidence that the cost savings and productivity enhancements derived from UC are driving the expansion of existing deployments in both the U.S. and Europe. We can give no assurance that significant growth in UC will occur or that we will be able to take advantage of any growth that does occur. Our ability to realize our UC plans and to achieve the financial results projected to arise from UC adoption could be adversely affected by the following factors: (i) the risk that, as UC becomes more widely adopted, competitors will offer solutions that will effectively commoditize our headsets which, in turn, will reduce the sales prices for our headsets; (ii) our plans are dependent upon the market success of major platform providers such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Alcatel-Lucent, and IBM, and we have a limited ability to influence such providers with respect to the functionality of their platforms, their rate of deployment, and their willingness to integrate their platforms with our solutions; (iii) the development of UC solutions is technically complex and this may delay or obstruct our ability to introduce solutions to the market on a timely basis and that are cost effective, feature-rich, stable and attractive to our customers; (iv) our development of UC solutions is dependent on our ability to design, develop and manufacture complex electronic systems comprised of hardware, firmware and software that must work in a wide variety of environments and multiple variations; (v) as UC becomes more widely adopted we anticipate that competition for market share will increase, and some competitors may have superior technical and economic resources; (vi) UC solutions may not be adopted with the breadth and speed in the marketplace that we currently anticipate; and (vii) UC may evolve rapidly and unpredictably and our ability to adapt to those changes and future requirements may impact our profitability in this market and our overall margins. Because the major providers of UC software utilize complex and proprietary platforms in which our UC products will be integrated, it will be necessary for us to expand our technical support capabilities. This expansion will result in additional expenses to hire the personnel and develop the infrastructure necessary to adequately serve our UC customers. Our support expenditures may substantially increase over time as these platforms evolve and as UC becomes more commonly adopted. If these investments do not generate incremental revenue, our business could be materially affected. In addition, the UC market is intensively competitive; failure to adapt to pricing pressures could impact our business. The failure of our suppliers to provide quality components or services in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of raw materials, components, sub-assemblies, and products from our suppliers. We buy raw materials, components and sub-assemblies from a variety of suppliers and assemble them into finished products. We also have certain of our components and products manufactured for us by third party suppliers. The cost, quality, and availability of such goods are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Obtaining raw materials, components, sub-assemblies, and finished products entails various risks, including the following: •Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand for our products could result in higher costs for components and sub-assemblies, increased expenditures for freight to expedite delivery of required materials, and higher overtime costs and other expenses. These higher expenditures could reduce our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, there may be decreased manufacturing yields, which may also reduce our margins.12Table of Contents •We obtain certain raw materials, sub-assemblies, components and products from single suppliers, including substantially all of our Bluetooth products from GoerTek, Inc. Alternate sources for these items may not be readily available. Any failure of GoerTek, Inc. or our other suppliers to remain in business, to provide us with the quantity of components or products that we need or to purchase the raw materials, subcomponents and parts required by them to produce and provide to us the components or products we need could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. •Although we generally use standard raw materials, parts and components for our products, the high development costs associated with emerging wireless and other technologies may require us to work with only a single source of silicon chips, chip-sets or other components or materials (“components or materials”) on any particular new product. We, or our supplier(s) of components or materials, may experience challenges in designing, developing and manufacturing components or materials using these new technologies which could affect our ability to meet market schedules. Our components or materials suppliers may decide for commercial reasons to discontinue components or materials that we have designed into our products. Due to our dependence on single suppliers for certain components or materials, we could experience higher prices, a delay in development of the components or materials, or the inability to meet our customer demand for these new products. Additionally, these suppliers or other suppliers may enter into bankruptcy, discontinue production of the components or materials we depend on, or may not be able to produce for their own commercial reasons due to financial difficulties or global economic conditions. If this occurs, we may have difficulty obtaining sufficient product to meet our needs. This could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations. If customers cease purchasing our products or turn to our competitors to meet their needs, there could be a long-term adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could therefore be materially adversely affected as a result of these factors. •We were apprised by one of our sole sourced suppliers that a wafer fabrication foundry it uses to produce integrated circuits for certain of our call center and office headsets is no longer producing those integrated circuit products. The production of these products was shifted to a different wafer fabrication foundry that previously produced these integrated circuits on our behalf. We expect to have new products before our supply of integrated circuits is depleted; however, the new foundry could have difficulties re-establishing the process and re-qualifying the integrated circuits that they are producing on our behalf. If the new wafer fabrication foundry cannot produce these integrated circuits with good quality and in the quantities we require in a timely manner, it is possible that we will not have product available to meet demand. Our revenue might decrease as a result and our customers might be forced to turn to alternative suppliers. A failure to properly produce the integrated circuits in the re-qualified foundry could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. •Because of the lead times required to obtain certain raw materials, sub-assemblies, components and products from certain suppliers, we may not be able to react quickly to changes in demand, potentially resulting in either excess inventories of such goods or shortages of the raw materials, sub-assemblies, components, and products. Lead times are particularly long on silicon-based components incorporating radio frequency and digital signal processing technologies and such components are an increasingly important part of our product costs. In particular, many consumer product orders have shorter lead times than the component lead times, making it increasingly necessary to carry more inventory in anticipation of those orders, which may not materialize. Failure in the future to match the timing of purchases of raw materials, sub-assemblies, components and products to demand could increase our inventories and/or decrease our revenues and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. •Most of our suppliers are not obligated to continue to provide us with raw materials, components, and sub-assemblies. Rather, we buy most of our raw materials, components and subassemblies on a purchase order basis. Prices for many commodities are rising and are increasing our costs. Additionally, if our suppliers experience increased demand or shortages, it could affect deliveries to us. Any such shortages or further increases in prices could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. •As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has proposed disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of a limited number of raw material parts contained in our products. This may reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to conclusively verify the origins for all metals used in our products. 13Table of Contents If we do not match production to demand, we may lose business or our gross margins could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by technological changes, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments and changes in demand. We determine production levels based on our forecasts of demand for our products. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. We have experienced differences between our actual and our forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. Some of our products utilize long-lead time parts which are available from a limited set of vendors. The combined effects of variability of demand among the customer base and significant long-lead time of single sourced materials has historically contributed to significant inventory write-downs, particularly in inventory for consumer products. For OCC products, long life-cycles periodically necessitate last-time buys of raw materials that may be used over the course of several years. We routinely review inventory for usage potential, including fulfillment of customer warranty obligations and spare part requirements. We write down to market value the excess and obsolete inventory. We evaluate the future realizable value of inventories and impact on gross margins, taking into consideration product life cycles, technological and product changes, demand visibility and other market conditions. We believe our current process for writing down inventory appropriately balances the risk in the marketplace with a fair representation of the realizable value of our inventory. In view of the uncertainties inherent in the recovery from the global recession, it is particularly difficult to make accurate forecasts in this business environment. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in supply or demand and the global trend towards consignment of products could cause the following operating problems, among others: •If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventory and excess capacity. Over-forecast of demand could result in higher inventories of finished products, components, and sub-assemblies. In addition, because our retail customers have pronounced seasonality, we must build inventory well in advance of the December quarter in order to stock up for the anticipated future demand. If we were unable to sell these inventories, we would have to write off some or all of our inventories of excess products and unusable components and sub-assemblies. Excess manufacturing capacity could lead to higher production costs and lower margins. •If demand increases beyond that forecasted, we may have to rapidly increase production. We currently depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and sub-assemblies, and we are experiencing greater dependence on single source suppliers; therefore, we might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. There could be short-term losses of sales while we are trying to increase production. In addition, we may incur increased costs for expediting products. •The production and distribution of Bluetooth and other wireless headsets presents many significant manufacturing, marketing and other operational risks and uncertainties including: •our dependence on third parties to supply key components, many of which have long lead times;•our ability to forecast demand for the variety of new products within this product category for which relevant data is incomplete or unavailable; and•longer lead times with suppliers than commitments from some of our customers. •If we are unable to deliver products on time to meet the market window of our retail customers, we will lose opportunities to increase revenues and profits, or we may incur penalties for late delivery. We may also be unable to sell these finished goods, which would result in excess or obsolete inventory. Any of the foregoing problems could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Prices of certain raw materials, components and sub-assemblies may rise or fall depending upon global market conditions. We have experienced volatility in costs from our suppliers, particularly in light of the price fluctuations of oil, gold, silver and other commodities and products in the U.S. and around the world. We may continue to experience volatility, which could affect profitability and/or market share. If we experience cost increases and are unable to pass these on to our customers or to achieve operating efficiencies that offset these increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 14Table of Contents We depend on original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers who may not have adequate capacity to fulfill our needs or may not meet our quality and delivery objectives which could have an adverse effect on our business. Original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers produce key portions of our product lines for us, including the majority of our Bluetooth products. Our reliance on these original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and logistics management, the potential lack of adequate capacity and loss of services. Financial instability of our manufacturers or contractors resulting from the global recession or otherwise could result in our having to find new suppliers which could increase our costs and delay our product deliveries. These manufacturers and contractors may also choose to discontinue manufacturing our products for a variety of reasons. Consequently, we may experience delays in the timeliness, quality and adequacy of product deliveries, any of which could harm our business and operating results. Currently, the majority of our Bluetooth products are manufactured by GoerTek, a contract manufacturer located in Weifang, China; therefore, the manufacturing of these products is heavily dependent upon GoerTek's ability to deliver the quantities of products that we demand in a timely manner and to meet our quality standards. In the event that GoerTek is unable or unwilling to meet our demand, delivery or price requirements, our Bluetooth business could be severely and materially affected as it may be difficult to ramp-up a new manufacturer on a timely and cost effective basis. We have strong competitors and expect to face additional competition in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. All of our markets are intensely competitive. We could experience a decline in average selling prices, competition on sales terms and conditions, or continual performance, technical and feature enhancements from our competitors in the retail market. Also, aggressive industry pricing practices may result in downward pressure on margins. Currently, our single largest competitor is GN Store Nord A/S (“GN”), a Danish telecommunications conglomerate with whom we experience price competition in the business markets. Motorola is a significant competitor in the consumer headset market, primarily in the mobile Bluetooth market, and has a brand name that is very well known and supported with significant marketing investments. Motorola also benefits from the ability to bundle other offerings with its headsets. We are also experiencing competition from other consumer electronics companies that currently manufacture and sell mobile phones or computer peripheral equipment. These competitors generally are larger, offer broader product lines, bundle or integrate with other products' communications headset tops and bases manufactured by them or others, offer products containing bases that are incompatible with our headset tops and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. The most competitive product line is headsets for cell phones where we compete with Motorola, Nokia, Aliph's Jawbone brand, Samsung, GN's Jabra brand, Bose, BlueAnt Wireless, and Sony Ericsson among many others. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than we have, and each of them has established market positions in this business. In the office and contact center market, the largest competitors are GN and Sennheiser Communications. For the entertainment and computer audio market, our primary competitors are Logitech and Sennheiser. Our product markets are intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing. We are facing additional competition from companies, principally located in the Asia Pacific region, which offer very low cost headset products including products that are modeled on or are direct copies of our products. These new competitors are offering very low cost products which results in pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by such new entrants into the headset market, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we do not distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our business could be harmed. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our revenues and gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our earnings could decline. We also compete in the consumer market for the sale of our mobile, gaming, and Clarity products. We believe that effective product promotion is highly relevant in the consumer market, which is dominated by large brands that have significant consumer mindshare. We have invested in marketing initiatives to raise awareness and consideration of Plantronics' products. We believe this will help increase preference for Plantronics and promote headset adoption overall. The consumer market is characterized by relatively rapid product obsolescence, and we are at risk if we do not have the right products at the right time to meet consumer needs. In addition, some of our competitors have significant brand recognition, and we are experiencing more competition in pricing actions which can result in significant losses and excess inventory. 15Table of Contents If we are unable to stimulate growth in our business, if our costs to stimulate demand do not generate incremental profit, or if we experience significant price competition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. In addition, failure to effectively market our products to customers could lead to lower and more volatile revenue and earnings, excess inventory and the inability to recover the associated development costs, any of which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our consumer business is volatile and failure to compete successfully in this business may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our consumer business, which consists primarily of Bluetooth headsets and computer and gaming headsets, is highly competitive. The risks faced in connection with this include the following: •interest in the consumer headset category may be lessening due to current weakening conditions in the consumer market and reduced attach rates of headsets to many popular mobile smartphones in the U.S.; •competition may increase more than we expect and result in product pricing pressures;•our ability to meet the market windows for consumer products;•difficulties retaining or obtaining shelf space for consumer products in our sales channel;•difficulties in achieving or maintaining a sufficient gross margin and uncertainties in the demand for Bluetooth headsets and computer and gaming headsets; •the varying pace of global economic recovery creates uncertainty and unpredictability about the demand for consumer products; and•our focus on UC products may weaken our competitive position. Our business will be materially adversely affected if we are not able to develop, manufacture, and market new products in response to changing customer requirements and new technologies. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, short product life cycles and frequent new product introductions. As a result, we must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The technology used in our products is evolving more rapidly now than it has historically, and we anticipate that this trend may accelerate. Historically, the technology used in lightweight communications headsets has evolved slowly. New products have primarily offered stylistic changes and quality improvements rather than significant new technologies. Our increasing reliance and focus on the UC market has resulted in a growing portion of our products that integrate significant new technology. In addition, our increasing participation in the consumer market requires us to adopt new technology and, thus, our consumer products experience shorter lifecycles. We believe this is particularly true for our newer emerging technology products especially in the mobile, computer, residential and certain parts of the office markets. In particular, we anticipate a trend towards more integrated solutions that combine audio, video, and software functionality, while historically our focus was limited to audio products. In the past, we have experienced a trend away from corded headsets to cordless products. In general, our corded headsets have had higher gross margins than our cordless products, but the margin on cordless headsets is trending higher. In addition, office phones have begun to incorporate Bluetooth functionality which has opened the market to consumer Bluetooth headsets and reduce the demand for our traditional office telephony headsets and adapters as well as impacting potential revenues from our own wireless headset systems, resulting in lost revenue and lower margins. Should we not be able to maintain the higher margins on our cordless products that we recently achieved, our revenue and profits will decrease. In addition, innovative technologies such as UC have moved the platform for certain of our products from our customers' closed proprietary systems to open platforms such as the PC. In turn, the PC has become more open as a result of such technologies as cloud computing and open source code development. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that current and potential competitors could enter our markets and commoditize our products by offering similar products. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to: •anticipate technology and market trends;•develop innovative new products and enhancements on a timely basis;•distinguish our products from those of our competitors;•create industrial design that appeals to our customers and end-users;•manufacture and deliver high-quality products in sufficient volumes; and•price our products competitively. 16Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, manufacture, market and introduce enhanced or new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, including changing fashion trends and styles, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as we develop new generations of products more quickly, we expect that the pace of product obsolescence will increase concurrently. The disposition of inventories of excess or obsolete products may result in reductions to our operating margins and materially adversely affect our earnings and results of operations. We have significant foreign manufacturing operations and rely on third party manufacturers that are inherently risky, and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally. We have a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico. We also have suppliers and other vendors throughout Asia, including GoerTek, Inc. located in Weifang, China, which is the manufacturer of the majority of our Bluetooth products. We also generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers. The types of risks faced in connection with international operations and sales include, among others: •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•cultural differences in the conduct of business;•greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;•the impact of recessionary, volatile or adverse global economic conditions;•reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•tariffs and other trade barriers;•political conditions, health epidemics, civil unrest or criminal activities within each country;•the management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries;•the burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; •currency restrictions; and•compliance with anti-bribery laws, including, without limitation, compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The above-listed and other inherent risks of international operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell our products through various channels of distribution that can be volatile, and failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with our channel partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, bankruptcies or financial difficulties of our customers may impact our business. We sell substantially all of our products through distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. Our existing relationships with these parties are not exclusive and can be terminated by either party without cause. These customers also sell or may sell products offered by our competitors. To the extent that our competitors offer these customers more favorable terms or more compelling products, such customers may decline to carry, de-emphasize, or discontinue carrying our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. Further, such customers may not recommend or may stop recommending our products. In the future, our OEMs or potential OEMs may elect to manufacture their own products that are similar to those we currently sell to them. The inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors, OEMs, retailers and telephony service providers or to expand our distribution channels could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Finally, as a result of the global economic weakness we have experienced the bankruptcy of certain customers, and it is not possible to predict whether additional bankruptcies of our customers may occur. As a result of the evolution of our consumer business, our customer mix is changing, and certain retailers, OEMs, and wireless carriers are more significant. This reliance on certain large channel partners could increase the volatility of our revenues and earnings. In particular, we have several large customers whose order patterns are difficult to predict. Offers and promotions by these customers may result in significant fluctuations of their purchasing activities over time. If we are unable to anticipate the purchase requirements of these customers, our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be exposed to large volumes of inventory that cannot be immediately resold to other customers. 17Table of Contents We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the Great Britain Pound (“GBP”). Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currency rates impact our global pricing strategy resulting in our lowering or raising selling prices in one or more currencies in order to avoid disparity with U.S. Dollar prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions. We also have significant manufacturing operations in Mexico and fluctuations in the Mexican Peso exchange rate can impact our gross profit and profitability. Currency exchange rates are volatile, and while we hedge our major exposures, changes in exchange rates in the future may still have a negative impact on our financial results. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposures for the future 12 month period. In addition, we hedge a portion of our Peso forecasted cost of revenues. Although we have employed these hedging techniques to minimize these risks, we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If the Euro and GBP fall against the U.S. Dollar, our revenues, gross profit and profitability in the future could be negatively affected. We also have foreign currency forward contracts denominated in Euros, GBP and Australian Dollars which hedge against a portion of our foreign-currency denominated assets and liabilities. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. Our corporate tax rate may increase, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant operations in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world, and a substantial portion of our taxable income has been generated historically in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Currently, some of our operations are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. If our income in these lower tax jurisdictions were no longer to qualify for these lower tax rates, the applicable tax laws were rescinded or changed, or the mix of our earnings shifts from lower rate jurisdictions to higher rate jurisdictions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our profits are currently recognized, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 7,000,000 shares of our common stock to enhance stockholder value which enhanced value may not be realized. Stock repurchases may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources and may require us to draw funds on our new credit agreement. In May 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 7,000,000 shares of our outstanding common stock. On May 9, 2011, we entered into two separate Master Confirmation and Supplemental Confirmations with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman”) pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase program (the “ASR Program”) under which we will repurchase shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million, which was paid to Goldman in May 2011. To augment our financial flexibility to facilitate this share repurchase program, on May 9, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association which provides for a $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility. At the closing of the Credit Agreement and through the filing of this Form 10-K, we did not draw any funds under the facility as we used domestic cash on hand to make the payment to Goldman. There can be no assurance of the following: •the impact on our stock price as a result of the ASR Program; and•when or if we will repurchase additional shares under the 7,000,000 share authorization or to make additional stock repurchases thereafter; Also, we will require additional funds to repurchase shares over and above those in the ASR Program. If we do not generate further domestic cash flow from operations, to make our repurchases, we may be required to draw funds on the Credit Agreement at which time we would incur interest expense. The Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply. These restrictions apply regardless of whether any loans are outstanding and could adversely impact how we operate our business. 18Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. There are multiple initiatives in several jurisdictions regarding the removal of certain potential environmentally sensitive materials from our products to comply with the European Union (“EU”) and other Directives on the Restrictions of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) and on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”). In certain jurisdictions, the RoHS legislation was enacted as of July 1, 2006; however, other jurisdictions have delayed implementation. While we believe that we will have the resources and ability to fully meet the requirements of the RoHS and WEEE directives universally, if unusual occurrences arise or we are wrong in our assessment of what it will take to fully comply, there is a risk that we will not be able to comply with the legislation as passed by the EU member states or other global jurisdictions. If this were to happen, a material negative effect on our financial results may occur. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations on a global basis, including those governing the use, discharge, and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our current manufacturing operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, it is possible that future environmental legislation may be enacted or current environmental legislation may be interpreted in any given country to create environmental liability with respect to our facilities, operations, or products. To the extent that we incur claims for environmental matters exceeding reserves or insurance for environmental liability, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We have intellectual property rights that could be infringed on by others, and we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Even if we prevail, claims and lawsuits are costly and time consuming to pursue or defend and may divert management's time from our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, and other intellectual property, including our rights to certain domain names. We rely primarily on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and media properties are distributed to customers. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be lengthy and expensive. Patents may not be issued in response to our applications, and any patents that may be issued may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged by others. If we are required to enforce our intellectual property or other proprietary rights through litigation, the costs and diversion of management's attention could be substantial. In addition, the rights granted under any intellectual property may not provide us competitive advantages or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If we do not enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets are owned by individuals or entities that may make claims or commence litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased. There has also been a general trend of increasing intellectual property assertion against corporations that make and sell products. Our products and technologies may be subject to certain third-party claims and, regardless of the merits of the claim, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate, settle, or otherwise resolve. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue the manufacture and distribution of products that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We also may have to obtain, or renew on less favorable terms, licenses to manufacture and distribute our products, which may significantly increase our operating expenses. In addition, many of our agreements with our distributors and resellers require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Discharging our indemnity obligations may involve time-consuming and expensive litigation and result in substantial settlements or damages awards, our products being enjoined, and the loss of a distribution channel or retail partner. 19Table of Contents Our products are subject to various regulatory requirements, and changes in such regulatory requirements may adversely impact our gross margins as we comply with such changes or reduce our ability to generate revenues if we are unable to comply. Our products must meet the requirements set by regulatory authorities in the numerous jurisdictions in which we sell them. For example, certain of our office and contact center products must meet certain standards to work with local phone systems. Certain of our wireless office and mobile products must work within existing frequency ranges permitted in various jurisdictions. As regulations and local laws change, we must modify our products to address those changes. Regulatory restrictions may increase the costs to design, manufacture, and sell our products, resulting in a decrease in our margins or a decrease in demand for our products if the costs are passed along. Compliance with regulatory restrictions may impact the technical quality and capabilities of our products reducing their marketability. If we do not comply with these regulations, our products might interfere with other devices that properly use the frequency ranges in which our products operate, and we may be responsible for the damages that our products cause. This could result in our having to alter the performance of our products and make payment of substantial monetary damages or penalties. We are exposed to potential lawsuits alleging defects in our products and/or other claims related to the use of our products. The sales of our products expose us to the risk of product liability and hearing loss claims. These claims have in the past been, and are currently being, asserted against us. None of the previously resolved claims have materially affected our business, financial condition, or results of operations, nor do we believe that any of the pending claims will have such an effect. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage provided under our policies could be unavailable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any such claim. Therefore, successful product liability or hearing loss claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our mobile headsets are used with mobile telephones. There has been continuing public controversy over whether the radio frequency emissions from mobile phones are harmful to users of mobile phones. We believe that there is no conclusive proof of any health hazard from the use of mobile phones but research in this area is incomplete. We have tested our headsets through independent laboratories and have found that use of our corded headsets reduces radio frequency emissions at the user's head to virtually zero. Our Bluetooth and other wireless headsets emit significantly less powerful radio frequency emissions than mobile phones. However, if research establishes a health hazard from the use of mobile phones or public controversy grows even in the absence of conclusive research findings, there could be an adverse impact on the demand for mobile phones, which could reduce demand for headset products. Likewise, should research establish a link between radio frequency emissions and wireless headsets and public concern in this area grows, demand for our wireless headsets could be reduced creating a material adverse effect on our financial results. There is also continuing and increasing public controversy over the use of mobile phones by operators of motor vehicles. While we believe that our products enhance driver safety by permitting a motor vehicle operator to generally be able to keep both hands free to operate the vehicle, there is no certainty that this is the case, and we may be subject to claims arising from allegations that use of a mobile phone and headset contributed to a motor vehicle accident. We maintain product liability insurance and general liability insurance that we believe would cover any such claims; however, the coverage provided under our policies could be unavailable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any such claim. Therefore, successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have $14.9 million of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet, and we have incurred significant impairment losses over the last two fiscal years recorded in discontinued operations. If the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss may be recognized, which would adversely affect our financial results. As a result of past acquisitions, the Company has $14.9 million of goodwill and intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2011. It is not possible at this time to determine if any future impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such charge would be material related to these remaining assets. If such a charge is necessary, it may have a material adverse affect our financial results. 20Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile and the value of your investment in Plantronics stock could be diminished. The market price for our common stock has been affected and may continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: •uncertain economic conditions, including the length of the recovery from the domestic and global recession, inflationary pressures, and a potential decline in investor confidence in the market place;•changes in our published forecasts of future results of operations;•quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations and changes in market share;•the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;•repurchases of our common shares under our repurchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase program;•our decision to declare dividends;•the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees;•changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;•developments in our industry;•sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market;•general economic, political, and market conditions, including market volatility; and•other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we lose the benefit of the services of key personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the services of a limited number of executive officers and other key employees. The unanticipated loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may still be subject to certain liabilities from our discontinued AEG business segment. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated October 2, 2009, a First Amendment to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated November 30, 2009, a Side Letter to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated January 8, 2010, and a second Side Letter to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated February 15, 2010 (collectively, the “Purchase Agreement”), we retained certain assets and liabilities of Altec Lansing as of the closing date, December 1, 2009 and may be required to indemnify the Purchaser for certain losses they may incur. If the Purchaser incurs certain losses, the Purchaser may make an indemnification claim and we may be required to pay certain expenses or reimburse Purchaser for losses they incur, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our ability to defend ourselves may be impaired because most of our former AEG employees are employees of the Purchaser and our management may have to devote a substantial amount of time to resolving the claim, and, as we are no longer in the AEG business, we may not be able to readily offer products, service and intellectual property in settlement. In addition, these indemnity claims may divert management attention from our continued business. It may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party stemmed from actions taken by us or the Purchaser and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine which party has responsibility for the claim. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have and will continue to consume management resources and incur significant expenses for Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. 21Table of Contents War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which could negatively affect our operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues, or other business interruptions whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused or could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, our company, and our suppliers or customers. Our major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, flood, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, public health issues, flu or similar epidemics, and other events beyond our control. Our corporate headquarters, information technology, manufacturing, certain research and development activities, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults or flood zones. While we are partially insured for earthquake-related losses or floods, our operating results and financial condition could be materially affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or manmade disaster. We have a limited number of suppliers based in Japan who appear to have been directly affected by the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis that occurred in Japan in March 2011. While their impact on our business does not appear to be material at this time, if that were to change, our business could be adversely affected. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any of the events described above, such events could significantly disrupt our operations. In addition, should major public health issues arise, including pandemics, we could be negatively impacted by the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of our manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by these events. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could decrease the value of our stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could also have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition by a third party. Further, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In 2002, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we distributed one right for each outstanding share of common stock held by stockholders of record as of April 12, 2002. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding such acquisition.22Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 