ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with any investment in our stock. Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general economic market conditions and industry conditions. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur. Accordingly, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Adverse or uncertain economic conditions may materially adversely affect us.Our operations and performance are dependent on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions makes it more challenging for us to forecast operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition, and results of operations. Global economic concerns, such as the uncertain and slow pace of economic recovery or growth worldwide and the continued economic downturn in certain regions of Europe and the Asia Pacific region, have increased uncertainty and unpredictability for our business as consumers and businesses postpone or forego spending, increasing risk to our future outlook. A global economic downturn, inconsistent or declining business hiring, a recurrence of recession in the U.S. or a more severe downturn in Europe, whether short-term or prolonged, may result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition, and customer and supplier bankruptcies.Replacement cycles of our Office and Contact Center ("OCC") headset products, in particular, are impacted by lower voluntary employee turnover as new headset demand is typically created when employees change employers and transition to new job opportunities. In the current economic environment, post-recession inconsistent domestic and international business hiring has perpetuated employee reluctance to change jobs and limits the opportunities for unemployed workers to reenter the workforce. As a consequence, voluntary employee turnover rates remain below historic non-recessionary levels which, therefore, impedes sales of our OCC headsets. Financial institutions continue to experience significant market pressure and increasing regulatory scrutiny in connection with a variety of factors and events, including lenders' exposure to the sovereign debt of countries like Greece, Italy, Spain, Cyprus, Portugal and failures of financial services institutions and low liquidity levels. As a result of the pressure and regulatory scrutiny, lenders may be more likely to further consolidate, cease to do business, or be required to meet increased compulsory capitalization thresholds, any of which could result in further tightening of the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. There could be a number of negative effects on our business, including impaired credit availability, increased financial instability and cautionary spending practices of our customers, suppliers, distributors, and other sales channel sources. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 11Table of ContentsIn August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (“BCA”), committing the U.S. government to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. The BCA contains provisions commonly referred to as “sequestration”, which call for substantial, unspecified automatic spending cuts split between defense and non-defense programs that may continue for a period of ten years. In January 2013, Congress enacted the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which temporarily postponed enactment of the sequestration provisions for approximately two months. The sequestration cuts went into effect at the beginning of March 2013 and the impact of the spending reductions have only recently begun to spread through the economy. Likewise, various European governments have implemented or intend to implement austerity measures intended to reduce government spending, which has, and in the future, will likely reduce demand for our products directly by affected governmental agencies and by our customers who derive all or a portion of their revenues from these governmental agencies. We cannot currently predict the impact of governmental spending reductions on us or our customers or whether and to what extent our business and results of operations may be adversely harmed.Further, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the Great Britain Pound (“GBP”). We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposure for the future, typically over a twelve month period. We can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective in minimizing our exposure. If the Euro and GBP fall against the USD, our revenues, gross profit, and profitability in the future could be negatively affected. See also our risk titled, “We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.”Our operating results are difficult to predict, and fluctuations may cause volatility in the trading price of our common stock.Given the nature of the markets in which we compete, our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict for many reasons, including the following:•Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis, and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from them, making forecasting difficult. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter, which fluctuate for many reasons beyond our control, including customers' sales promotions and campaigns, large customer deployments of Unified Communications ("UC") infrastructure, general economic conditions, seasonality, customer cancellations and rescheduling, and fluctuating employment opportunities that increase or reduce employee turnover and, thereby, new headset needs.•Our gross margins can vary for a number of reasons, including customer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. Moreover, there are significant variances in gross profit percentages between our higher and lower margin products such that small variations in product mix, which can be difficult to predict, can materially impact gross profit. Additionally, if we are unable to timely introduce new products within projected costs, product demand is less than anticipated, there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react or that are initiated by us to drive sales that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will decrease. Our gross margins also vary significantly by sales geography and customer type. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected and create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our common stock.•We incur a large portion of our costs in advance of customer orders because we must plan research and production, order materials and components, commence manufacturing, incur sales and marketing expenditures, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. In the event inventories for one or more products exceed demand, the risk of inventory write-downs increases. Conversely, in the event we have inadequate inventory to timely meet the demand for particular products, we may miss significant revenue opportunities or incur significant expenses such as air freight, costs for expediting shipments, and other negative variances in our manufacturing processes as we attempt to make up for the shortfall. When a significant portion of our revenue is derived from new products, forecasting appropriate volumes of production is even more difficult. 12Table of Contents•Increasingly, we are incorporating software features and functionalities into our products, offering firmware and software fixes, updates and upgrades electronically over the Internet and developing standalone software applications. Rules and policies regarding revenue recognition in connection with software are determined by regulations promulgated by national accounting standards bodies and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). As the nature and extent of software integration in our products increases or if sales of standalone software applications become more material to our revenues, the way we report our revenue related to our products could be significantly affected by these rules and policies. For example, we could be required to recognize revenue in connection with headset sales over an extended period of time instead of at the time of sale as we have done traditionally. Moreover, the software revenue recognition rules are complex and dynamic. If we fail to accurately apply these complex rules and policies to our business, we may incorrectly report revenues in one or more quarterly or annual periods. If this were to occur and the error were to be material, we may be required to restate our financial statements, which could materially, negatively impact our results for the affected periods, cause our stock price to decline, and result in securities class actions or other similar litigation.Fluctuations in our operating results, including the failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of financial analysts, may cause volatility, including material decreases, in the trading price of our common stock. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to effectively market our UC products, and our business could be materially adversely affected if markets do not develop as we expect.Our OCC products represent our largest source of revenue. We believe that our greatest long-term opportunity for revenue and profit growth in the OCC market and overall is in the UC office market, and our foremost strategic objective is to increase headset adoption. We continue to invest in the development of new products and to enhance existing products to be more appealing in functionality and design for the UC market. In addition, in 2012 we introduced our developer community, Plantronics Developer Connection (the "PDC"), to enable third party developers to utilize the functionality of our UC portfolio in their product offerings. However, it remains unclear if the PDC will successfully generate sufficient third party developer interest in new or unique uses for our UC products to expand the rate or extent of their adoption. We also target certain vertical segments to increase sales. We continue to believe that the implementation of UC technologies by large enterprises will be a significant long-term driver of enterprise UC headset adoption, and, as a result, a key long-term driver of revenue and product growth; however, we can give no assurance that significant growth in UC will occur or that we will be able to take advantage of any growth that does occur. Our ability to realize our UC plans and to achieve the financial results projected to arise from UC adoption could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the following: •As UC becomes more widely adopted, the risk that competitors will offer solutions that will effectively commoditize our headsets, which, in turn, will reduce the sales prices for our headsets.•Our plans are dependent upon the market success of major platform providers and strategic partners such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Alcatel-Lucent, and IBM, and we have limited ability to influence such providers with respect to the functionality of their platforms and product offerings, their rate of deployment, and their willingness to integrate their platforms and product offerings with our solutions.•The development of UC solutions is technically complex and may delay or limit our ability to introduce solutions that are cost effective, feature-rich, stable, and attractive to our customers on a timely basis.•Our development of UC solutions is dependent on our ability to implement and execute new and different processes in connection with the design, development, and manufacturing of complex electronic systems composed of hardware, firmware, and software that must work in a wide variety of environments and multiple variations, which in some instances may increase the risk of development delays or errors and require the hiring of new personnel and/or third party contractors at increased cost.•Because UC offerings involve complex integration of hardware and software with UC infrastructure, our sales model and expertise will need to continue to evolve. If we fail to anticipate or effectively implement changes in our sales model or channel our selling techniques and efforts at the primary UC decision makers within enterprises, our ability to maintain and grow our share of the UC market may be adversely impacted.•Competition for market share is anticipated to increase, and some competitors may have superior technical and economic resources. 13Table of Contents•UC solutions may not be adopted with the breadth and speed in the marketplace that we currently anticipate and sales cycles for more complex UC deployments may substantially increase over our traditional OCC products.•UC may evolve rapidly and unpredictably and our inability to timely and cost-effectively adapt to those changes and future requirements may impact our profitability in this market and our overall margins.Because the major providers of UC software utilize complex and proprietary platforms in which our UC products will be integrated, it is necessary to expand our technical support capabilities. This expansion will result in additional expenses to hire and train the personnel and develop the infrastructure necessary to adequately serve our UC customers. Our support expenditures may substantially increase over time as these platforms evolve and as UC becomes more commonly adopted.If our investments in, and strategic focus on, UC does not generate incremental revenue, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The failure of our suppliers to provide quality components or services in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations.Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our ability to timely obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, components, sub-assemblies, and products of acceptable quality from our suppliers. We buy raw materials, components, and sub-assemblies from a variety of suppliers and assemble them into finished products. In addition, certain of our components and products are manufactured for us by third party suppliers. The cost, quality, and availability of such goods are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Obtaining raw materials, components, sub-assemblies, and finished products entails various risks, including the following:•Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand for our products could result in higher costs for components and sub-assemblies, increased expenditures for freight to expedite delivery of required materials, and higher overtime costs and other expenses, which could reduce our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing yields may decrease, which may also reduce our margins.•We obtain certain raw materials, sub-assemblies, components, and products from certain suppliers, including a majority of our Bluetooth products from GoerTek, Inc. Alternate sources for these items may not be readily available or at acceptable prices. Any failure of GoerTek or our other suppliers to remain in business, provide us with the quantity of components or products that we need or purchase the raw materials, subcomponents and parts of acceptable quality required to produce and provide the components or products we need could, among other things, delay our ability to meet demand for our products or require us to incur additional costs to obtain components from other suppliers, if alternative sources are available at all.•Although we generally use standard raw materials, parts, and components for our products, the high development costs associated with existing and emerging wireless and other technologies may require us to work with a single source of silicon chips, chip-sets, or other components or materials (“components or materials”) on any particular product. We, or any of our suppliers, may experience challenges in designing, developing, and manufacturing components or materials using these new technologies, which could affect our ability to meet market schedules. Our suppliers may decide for commercial reasons to discontinue components or materials that we have designed into our products or may cease doing business completely due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise. Due to our dependence on single suppliers for certain components or materials, if our suppliers cease making the components or materials we use or cannot meet our demand, we could experience higher prices, a delay in manufacturing of the components or materials, be forced to redesign or end of life products, make large last-time buys which are held in inventory for extended periods of time or be unable to meet customer demand. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.•Because of the lead times required to obtain certain raw materials, sub-assemblies, components, and products from certain suppliers, we may be unable to react quickly to changes in demand, potentially resulting in either (i) excess inventories of such goods or materials, sub-assemblies, or components, or (ii) product shortages. Lead times are particularly long for silicon-based components incorporating radio frequency and digital signal processing technologies and such components make up an increasingly larger portion of our product costs. In particular, many consumer product orders have shorter lead times than component lead times, making it increasingly necessary to carry more inventory in anticipation of orders, which may not materialize. Failure to synchronize the timing of purchases of raw materials, sub-assemblies, components, and products to meet demand could increase our inventories and/or decrease our revenues and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14Table of Contents•Prices for commodities may rise based on demands from within our industry and other industries with which we compete for raw materials and components. Additionally, if our suppliers experience increased demand or shortages, it could affect the timeliness of deliveries to us and our customers. Any such shortages or further increases in prices could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.•As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. The disclosure requirements became effective for calendar year 2013. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of a limited number of parts contained in our products. For example, the implementation of these disclosure requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals, thereby negatively affecting our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may be unable to conclusively verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We may suffer financial and reputational harm if customers require, and we are unable to deliver, certification that our products are conflict free. Regardless, we will incur additional costs associated with compliance with these disclosure requirements, including time-consuming and costly efforts to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products.If we fail to forecast demand for our products or successfully match production to demand, we may lose business, become obligated to purchase consigned inventory, or our gross margins could be materially adversely affected.Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments and changes in demand. Production levels are forecasted based on anticipated and actual demand for our products. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. It is particularly difficult to make accurate forecasts because of the uncertainties inherent in global and regional economies. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in product supply or demand could cause operating problems. For example, if forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventory and capacity. We have experienced differences between actual and forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. We will lose opportunities to increase revenues and profits, may incur penalties for late delivery, and may be unable to later sell the excess inventory if we are unable to timely deliver products to meet the market window of our retail customers. Conversely, over-forecast of demand could result in higher inventories of finished products, components, and sub-assemblies. For example, because our retail business has pronounced seasonality, we typically build inventory well in advance of the December quarter to stock up for the anticipated demand. If we are unable to sell these inventories, we may have to write off some or all of our inventories of excess products, unusable components, and sub-assemblies.Moreover, a substantial portion of the raw materials, components, and subassemblies used in our products are provided by our suppliers on a consignment basis. As such, we do not take possession of and title to the raw materials, components and subassemblies until they are consumed in the production process. Prior to consumption in the production process, title and risk of loss to consigned inventory remains solely with the suppliers. Consigned inventory not consumed in the production process is returnable to our suppliers in accordance with the terms of our agreements with them. If we purchase all or a material portion of the materials and components consigned by our suppliers, we could incur unanticipated expenses, including write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which, if material, could negatively affect our business and financial results.In addition, some of our products utilize long-lead time parts, which are only available from a limited set of vendors. The combined effects of variability of demand from our customers with long-lead time of single sourced materials has in the past contributed to inventory write-downs, particularly for our consumer products.Furthermore, suppliers may choose to discontinue supplying raw materials or manufacturing one or more components or subassemblies essential to our products, which may be difficult, time-consuming, or costly to replace. In certain instances, we may choose to purchase large quantities of the raw materials, components, or subassemblies being discontinued as part of a last- time buy strategy. For example, we have periodically made last-time purchases in excess of our short-term needs, which are included in inventory and used over a period of several years. We routinely review inventory for usage potential, including fulfillment of customer warranty obligations and spare part requirements, and we write down to the lower of cost or market value the excess and obsolete inventory, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 15Table of ContentsFrom time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, capabilities, or technologies that may replace or shorten the life cycles of our products or cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available. Additionally, the announcement of new products may incite customers to increase purchases of successful legacy products as part of a last-time buy strategy, thereby increasing sales in the short-term while decreasing future sales by delaying adoption of new products. These inherent risks of transitioning to new products increase the difficulty of accurately forecasting demand for discontinued products as well as demand and acceptance for new products. Accordingly, we must effectively manage inventory levels to have an adequate supply of the new product and avoid retention of excess legacy product; however, we must also concurrently maintain sufficient levels of older product inventory to support continued sales during the transition. Our failure to effectively manage transitions from old to new products could result in inventory obsolescence, and/or loss of revenue and associated gross profit, which may further result in one or more material adverse effects on our revenues and profitability. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Prices of certain raw materials, components, semiconductors, and sub-assemblies may rise depending upon global market conditions. We have experienced volatility in costs from our suppliers, particularly in light of the price fluctuations of oil, gold, copper and other commodities, semiconductors, and other components and products in the U.S. and around the world. We expect to continue experiencing volatility, which could negatively affect our profitability or market share. Constraints in the availability of certain commodities originating from certain countries in and around the Democratic Republic of Congo or reduction of the number of suppliers that can certify that such commodities are conflict-free under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may exacerbate this volatility. If we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers or to achieve operating efficiencies that offset these increases, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.We have strong competitors and expect to face additional competition in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected.All of the markets for our products are intensely competitive. We face pressure on our selling prices, sales terms and conditions, and performance, technical, and feature enhancements from our competitors. Also, aggressive industry pricing practices may result in downward pressure on margins.Currently, our single largest competitor is GN Store Nord A/S (“GN”), a Danish telecommunications conglomerate with whom we experience price competition in the OCC and consumer markets. We are also experiencing competition from consumer electronics companies that currently manufacture and sell mobile phones or computer peripheral equipment. These competitors generally are larger, offer broader product lines, bundle or integrate with other products' communications headset devices and adapters manufactured by them or others, offer products containing bases that are incompatible with our headset tops, and have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources.Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. The most competitive product line is headsets for cell phones where we compete with GN's Jabra brand, Motorola, Samsung, Aliph's Jawbone brand, BlueAnt Wireless, Nokia, Bose, and Sony Ericsson, among many others. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us, and each of them has established market positions in this business. In the UC and office and contact center markets, the largest competitors are GN, Sennheiser Communications, VXI and Logitech. For the entertainment and computer audio market, our primary competitors are Sennheiser and Logitech. Our product markets are intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs, and pricing. We are facing additional competition from companies, principally located in the Asia Pacific region, which offer very low cost headset products including products that are modeled on or are direct copies of our products. These new competitors offer very low cost products, which results in pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by new entrants into the headset market, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.If we do not distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our products may become commoditized and our business could be harmed. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our revenues and gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our earnings could decline.We also compete in the consumer market for the sale of our mobile, entertainment, gaming and computer audio, and Clarity products. The consumer market is highly competitive, characterized by relatively rapid product obsolescence, and we are at risk if we do not have the right products available at the right time to meet consumer needs. In addition, some of our competitors have significant brand recognition, thereby creating barriers to entry or making market share increases difficult and costly. Moreover, we sometimes experience more price-based competition that can result in significant losses and excess inventory. 16Table of ContentsIf we are unable to stimulate growth in our business or if our expenditures to stimulate demand do not generate incremental profit, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could suffer. In addition, failure to effectively market our products to customers could lead to lower and more volatile revenue and earnings, excess inventory, and the inability to recover associated development costs, any of which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.We depend on original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers who may not have adequate capacity to fulfill our needs or may not meet our quality and delivery objectives, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers produce key portions of our product lines, including, for example, GoerTek, Inc., which manufacturers the majority of our mono Bluetooth products. Our reliance on these original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and logistics management, the potential lack of adequate capacity and timely deliveries, unanticipated or inconveniently timed loss of services, and reduced flexibility to respond to changes specific to us or our industry. Financial instability of our manufacturers or contractors resulting from the global recession or otherwise could result in our having to find or transition manufacturing to new suppliers, which could increase our costs and delay our product deliveries. These manufacturers and contractors may also choose to discontinue manufacturing our products for a variety of reasons. Consequently, if one or more original design manufacturers or contract manufacturers is unable or unwilling to meet our demand, delivery, or price requirements, our business and operating results in all or a portion of our product lines could be severely and materially affected in the event it is difficult, costly, or time-consuming to identify and ramp-up alternative manufacturers. Our consumer business is volatile and failure to compete successfully in this business may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Our consumer business, which consists primarily of Bluetooth headsets, entertainment (stereo) and gaming and computer audio headsets, is highly competitive and presents many significant manufacturing, marketing and operational risks and uncertainties. The risks include the following: •The global market for mono Bluetooth headsets is shrinking, which is at least partially attributable to increasing integration of Bluetooth systems into automobiles. The market for stereo Bluetooth headsets is growing rapidly, although it is dominated by lifestyle brands. Our market share has been and is significantly larger in the mono market than in the stereo market and it remains unclear whether we will be able to sufficiently increase share in the stereo market in order to continue growing in the overall market for Bluetooth headsets, which may be particularly difficult considering we do not offer a lifestyle brand.•Reductions in the number of suppliers participating in the Bluetooth market, thereby reducing our sourcing options and potentially increasing our costs at a time when our ability to offset higher costs with corresponding product price increases is limited.•Difficulties retaining or obtaining shelf space and maintaining a robust and compelling eCommerce presence for consumer products in our sales channel, particularly with large "brick and mortar" retailers and Internet "etailers" as the market for mono Bluetooth headsets continues to contract.•The varying pace and scale of global economic recovery creates uncertainty and unpredictability about the demand for consumer products.•Our ability to forecast global trends and thereafter timely meet the market windows for consumer products, particularly as it relates to our dependence on third parties to supply key components, many of which have longer lead times than commitments from some of our customers.•Our ability to maintain insight into, and quickly respond to, sudden changes in laws or regulations before our competitors.•Difficulties achieving or maintaining sufficient gross margin and uncertainties in the forecasting of demand for the variety of Bluetooth headsets, entertainment, gaming and computer audio headsets, and new products generally within this category for which relevant data is incomplete or unavailable.•Competition may increase more than we expect and result in product pricing pressures.Failure to compete successfully in the consumer business market may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17Table of ContentsWe are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in USD, whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the GBP. Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currency rates impact our global pricing strategy, resulting in our lowering or raising selling prices in one or more currencies in order to avoid disparity with USD prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions. Large or frequent fluctuations in foreign currency rates, coupled with the ease of identifying global price differences for our products via the Internet, increase the likelihood of unauthorized third party sales in varying countries, thereby undermining our established sales channels and operations. We also have significant manufacturing operations in Mexico and fluctuations in the Mexican Peso exchange rate can impact our gross profit and profitability. Additionally, the majority of our suppliers are located internationally, principally in Asia. Accordingly, volatile or sustained increases or decreases in exchange rates of Asian currencies may result in increased costs or reductions in the number of suppliers qualified to meet our standards. Currency exchange rates are volatile, and although we hedge those exposures we deem material, changes in exchange rates may nonetheless still have a negative impact on our financial results. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposures for the future, typically over 12-month periods. In addition, we hedge a portion of our Mexican Peso forecasted cost of revenues and we have foreign currency forward contracts denominated in Euros, GBP, and Australian Dollars that hedge against a portion of our foreign-currency denominated assets and liabilities. Our foreign currency hedging contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements and we do not execute hedging contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. We can offer no assurance that such hedging strategies will be effective. Additionally, even if our hedging techniques are successful in the periods during which the rates are hedged, our future revenues, gross profit, and profitability may be negatively affected both at current rates and by adverse fluctuations in currencies against the USD. Our business will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to develop, manufacture, and market new products in response to changing customer requirements and new technologies.The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, short product life cycles, and frequent new product introductions by us and our competitors and partners, including mobile phone and software application developers. As a result, we must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance or adapt existing products to work with a wider variety of new and existing devices and applications in order to maintain customer satisfaction and remain competitive.The technology used in our products is evolving more rapidly now than in the past and we anticipate that this trend will continue. Historically, new products primarily offered stylistic changes and quality improvements rather than significant new technologies. Our increasing reliance and focus on the UC market has resulted in a growing portion of our products that integrate complex, state-of-the-art technology, increasing the risks associated with new product ramp-up, including product performance and defects in the early stages of production. In addition, our participation in the consumer market requires us to rapidly and frequently adopt new technology and changing market trends; thus, our consumer products experience shorter lifecycles. We believe this is particularly true for our newer emerging technology products in the mobile, entertainment, gaming and computer audio, residential, and certain parts of the office markets. In particular, we anticipate a trend towards more integrated solutions that combine audio, video, and software functionality, while historically our focus was limited to audio products.Office phones have begun to incorporate Bluetooth functionality, which has opened the market to consumer Bluetooth headsets and reduced the demand for our traditional office telephony headsets and adapters as well as impacting potential revenues from our own wired and wireless headset systems, resulting in lost revenue, lower margins, or both. Moreover, the increasing adoption of wireless headsets has also resulted in increased development costs associated with the introduction of new wireless standards and more frequent changes in those standards and capabilities as compared to wired technologies. If sales and margins on our traditional corded and cordless products decline and we are unable to successfully design, develop, and market alternatives at historically comparable margins, our revenue and profits may decrease.In addition, innovative technologies such as UC have moved the platform for certain of our products from our customers' closed proprietary systems to open platforms such as the PC. In turn, the PC has become more open as a result of technologies such as cloud computing and trends toward more open source software code development. As a result, the risk that current and potential competitors could enter our markets and commoditize our products by offering similar products has increased. 18Table of ContentsThe success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to:•Anticipate technology and market trends•Develop innovative new products and enhancements on a timely basis•Distinguish our products from those of our competitors•Create industrial designs that appeal to our customers and end-users•Manufacture and deliver high-quality products in sufficient volumes and acceptable margins•Price our products competitively•Hire and retain qualified personnel in the highly competitive field of software development for future generations of our products•Provide timely, effective and accurate technical product support to our customers•Leverage new and existing channel partners effectivelyIf we are unable to develop, manufacture, market, and introduce enhanced or new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, including changing fashion trends and styles, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, as we develop new generations of products more quickly, we expect that the pace of product obsolescence will increase concurrently. The disposition of inventories of excess or obsolete products may result in reductions to our operating margins and materially adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.We have significant foreign manufacturing operations and rely on third party manufacturers located outside the U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, which subjects our business to risks of international operations.We have a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico. We also have suppliers and other vendors throughout Asia, including GoerTek, Inc., located in Weifang, China, which is the manufacturer of the majority of our Bluetooth products. We also generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers. Our international operations and sales expose us to various risks including, among others:•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates•Cultural differences in the conduct of business•Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods•The impact of recessionary, volatile or adverse global economic conditions•Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements•Tariffs and other trade barriers, particularly in developing nations such as Brazil, India, and others•Political conditions, health epidemics, civil unrest, or criminal activities within each country•The management, operation, and expenses associated with an enterprise spread over various countries•The burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations •Currency restrictions•Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery ActThe above-listed and other inherent risks of international operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19Table of ContentsWe sell our products through various distribution channels that can be volatile, and failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with our channel partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, bankruptcies or financial difficulties of our customers may impact our business. We sell substantially all of our products to end users through distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. Effectively managing these relationships and avoiding channel conflicts can be difficult and time-consuming. Our existing relationships with these parties are generally not exclusive and can be terminated by us or them without cause on short notice. In the future, we may be unable to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. These customers also sell or may sell products offered by our competitors. To the extent that our competitors offer these customers more favorable terms or more compelling products, such customers may decline to carry, de-emphasize, or discontinue carrying our products. Further, such customers may not recommend or may stop recommending our products. In the future, our OEMs or potential OEMs may elect to manufacture their own products that are similar to those we currently sell to them. The inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors, OEMs, retailers, and telephony service providers or to expand our distribution channels could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have experienced the bankruptcy of certain customers; for example, in fiscal year 2012, the bankruptcy of one of our customers negatively impacted our operating income by $1.2 million. If global or regional economic conditions deteriorate, more of our customers or suppliers may become insolvent. It is impossible to reliably determine whether additional bankruptcies may occur. As a result of the evolution of our consumer business, our customer mix is changing, and certain retailers, OEMs, and wireless carriers are more significant. This reliance on certain large channel partners could increase the volatility of our revenues and earnings. In particular, we have several large customers whose order patterns are difficult to predict. Offers and promotions by these customers may result in significant fluctuations of their purchasing activities over time. If we are unable to correctly anticipate the quantities and timing of the purchase requirements of these customers, our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be exposed to large volumes of inventory that cannot be resold to other customers. Our corporate tax rate may increase or we may incur additional income tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant operations in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world, and a substantial portion of our taxable income has been generated historically in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Currently, some of our operations are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. If our income in these lower tax jurisdictions were no longer to qualify for these lower tax rates, the applicable tax laws were rescinded or changed, or the mix of our earnings shifts from lower rate jurisdictions to higher rate jurisdictions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, various governmental tax authorities have recently increased their scrutiny of tax strategies employed by corporations and individuals. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our profits are currently recognized, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and foreign governments. In July 2012, the IRS commenced an examination of our 2010 tax year. While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 20Table of ContentsOur intellectual property rights could be infringed on by others, and we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others resulting in claims or lawsuits. Even if we prevail, claims and lawsuits are costly and time consuming to pursue or defend and may divert management's time from our business.Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, and other intellectual property, including our rights to certain domain names. We rely primarily on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and media properties are distributed to customers. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. For example, patents may not be issued in response to our applications, and any patents that may be issued may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged by others. If we are required to enforce our intellectual property or other proprietary rights through litigation, the costs and diversion of management's attention could be substantial. Furthermore, we may be countersued by an actual or alleged infringer if we attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may materially increase our costs, divert management attention, and result in injunctive or financial damages being awarded against us. In addition, the rights granted under any intellectual property may not provide us competitive advantages or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If it is not feasible or possible to obtain, enforce, or protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets are owned by individuals or entities that may make claims or commence litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased. There has also been a general trend of increasing intellectual property infringement claims against corporations that make and sell products. Our products and technologies may be subject to certain third-party claims and, regardless of the merits of the claim, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate, settle, or otherwise resolve. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue the manufacture and distribution of products that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We also may have to obtain, or renew on less favorable terms, licenses to manufacture and distribute our products, which may significantly increase our operating expenses. In addition, many of our agreements with our distributors and resellers require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Discharging our indemnity obligations may involve time-consuming and expensive litigation and result in substantial settlements or damages awards, our products being enjoined, and the loss of a distribution channel or retail partner, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs.There are multiple initiatives in several jurisdictions regarding the removal of certain potential environmentally sensitive materials from our products to comply with the European Union (“EU”) and other Directives on the Restrictions of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) and on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”). If it is determined that our products do not comply with RoHs or WEEE, or additional new or existing environmental laws or regulations in the U.S., Europe, or other jurisdictions are enacted or amended, we may be required to modify some or all of our products or replace one or more components in those products, which, if such modifications are possible, may be time-consuming, expensive to implement and decrease end-user demand, particularly if we increase prices to offset higher costs. If any of the foregoing were to happen, our ability to sell one or more of our products may be limited or prohibited causing a material negative effect on our financial results.We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations on a global basis, including those governing the use, discharge, and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our current manufacturing operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, it is possible that future environmental legislation may be enacted or current environmental legislation may be interpreted in any given country to create environmental liability with respect to our facilities, operations, or products. To the extent that we incur claims for environmental matters exceeding reserves or insurance for environmental liability, our operating results could be negatively impacted.We cannot guarantee we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to stock repurchase programs or that we will declare future dividend payments at historic rates or at all. The repurchase of our common stock and the payment of dividends may not achieve our desires or may result in negative side effects.Since May 2011, we have repurchased in excess of 8 million shares of our common stock through multiple share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors. In addition, we continue to operate under a 1,000,000 share repurchase program approved in August 2012. Moreover, our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends of $.10 per share since May 2012 and $0.05 per share over a number of years prior to May 2012. 21Table of ContentsAlthough our Board of Directors has consistently declared quarterly cash dividend payments on our common stock and has authorized the repurchase of shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs with more frequency in recent years, any determination to pay cash dividends at recent rates or at all, or any authorization to repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs will be assessed based on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that such dividends or share repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and applicable agreements. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the quantities of stock repurchased under our stock repurchase programs will continue at recent historical levels or at all, or that our stock repurchase programs or dividend declarations will have a beneficial impact on our stock price. The timing of our stock repurchases varies with fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock such that at any particular time, our domestic cash flow from operations has been, and may be again in the future, insufficient to fully cover our stock repurchases and support our working capital needs, causing us to borrow to support our repurchase or other activities. Although we currently have sufficient reserves in our international locations to fund our existing and any future stock repurchase programs, repatriating all or a portion of our foreign cash would likely result in material tax obligations.To improve our domestic liquidity in connection with further stock repurchases and other business activities, in May 2011, we entered into a credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association ("the Bank"), as most recently amended in May 2013 to extend its term to May 2016 ("the Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for a $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We have previously drawn funds and expect to continue drawing funds under the Credit Agreement from time to time, which amounts bear interest. Moreover, the Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply. These restrictions apply regardless of whether any loans are outstanding and could adversely impact how we operate our business, our operating results, and dividend declarations, which, in turn, may negatively impact our stock price. In addition, as we borrow additional funds on the credit facility under the Credit Agreement, we may be required to increase the borrowing limit under the Credit Agreement or seek additional sources of credit. Given tightening credit markets, there is no assurance that if we were to seek additional credit, it would be available to us when needed or if it is available, the cost or restrictive terms and conditions accompanying additional loans would not be prohibitive.We are subject to various regulatory requirements, and changes in such regulatory requirements and increases in the number and types of products using limited radio frequencies for wireless products may adversely impact our gross margins as we comply with such changes, reduce our ability to generate revenues if we are unable to comply, or decrease demand for our wireless products if increased radio frequency interference reduces the actual or perceived quality of those products.Our products must meet the requirements set by regulatory authorities in the numerous jurisdictions in which we sell them. For example, certain of our OCC products must meet certain standards to work with local phone systems. Certain of our wireless office and mobile products must work within existing frequency ranges permitted in various jurisdictions. Moreover, competition for limited radio frequency bandwidth as a result of an increasing number of wireless products by us, our competitors, and other third party product manufacturers increases the risk of interference or diminished product performance. In particular, there is an effort by a third party manufacturer of wireless devices to release a product in the U.S. that operates in the unlicensed 903-928 megahertz radio frequency range using significantly higher power than the power used by our wireless products and those of many other users in the unlicensed radio frequency range. If use of this product is approved by the Federal Communications Commission, we anticipate our wireless products will experience interference which, if material, will harm our reputation and adversely affect sales of our wireless products.As regulations and local laws change and competition for limited bandwidth on various radio frequencies increases, we must modify our products to address those changes. Regulatory restrictions and competition may increase the costs to design, manufacture, and sell our products, resulting in a decrease in our margins or a decrease in demand for our products if the costs are passed along. Compliance with regulatory restrictions and bandwidth limitations may impact the actual or perceived technical quality and capabilities of our products, reducing their marketability. In addition, if the products we supply to various jurisdictions or which are conveyed by customers or merchants into unauthorized jurisdictions fail to comply with the applicable local or regional regulations, our products might interfere with other devices that properly use the frequency ranges in which our products operate, and we or consumers purchasing our products may be responsible for the damages that our products cause. This could result in our having to alter the performance of our products, pay substantial monetary damages or penalties, harm to our reputation, or other adverse consequences.We are exposed to potential lawsuits alleging defects in our products and/or other claims related to the use of our products.The sales of our products expose us to the risk of product liability, including hearing loss claims. These claims have in the past been, and are currently being, asserted against us. None of the previously resolved claims have materially affected our business, financial condition, or results of operations, nor do we believe that any of the pending claims will have such an effect. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that any such claims may materially negatively impact our business or result in substantial damages, or both, in the future. 22Table of ContentsAdditionally, our mobile headsets are used with mobile telephones and there has been continuing public controversy over whether the radio frequency emissions from mobile phones are harmful to users of mobile phones. We are unaware of any conclusive proof of any health hazard from the use of mobile phones, but research in this area continues. We have tested our headsets through independent laboratories and have found that use of our corded headsets reduces radio frequency emissions at the user's head to virtually zero and our Bluetooth and other wireless headsets emit significantly less powerful radio frequency emissions than mobile phones; however, if research establishes a health hazard from the use of mobile phones or public controversy grows even in the absence of conclusive research findings, the likelihood of litigation against us may increase. Likewise, should research establish a link between radio frequency emissions and corded or wireless headsets or should we become a party to litigation claiming such a link and public concern in this area grows, demand for our corded or wireless headsets could be reduced creating a material adverse effect on our financial results.There is also continuing and increasing public controversy over the use of mobile phones by operators of motor vehicles. While we believe that our products enhance driver safety by permitting a motor vehicle operator to generally keep both hands free to operate the vehicle, there is no certainty that this is the case, and we may be subject to claims arising from allegations that use of a mobile phone and headset contributed to a motor vehicle accident. We maintain product liability insurance and general liability insurance that we believe would cover any claims, including those described above; however, the coverage provided under our policies could be unavailable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any one or more claims. Therefore, successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile and the value of an investment in Plantronics stock could be diminished.The market price for our common stock has been affected and may continue to be affected by a number of factors, including:•Uncertain economic conditions, including the length and scope of the recovery from the domestic and global recession or double dip recession in the U.S. or Europe, slowing economic growth in Asia, inflationary pressures, and a potential decline in investor confidence in the market place•Failure to meet our forecasts or the expectations and forecasts of securities analysts•Changes in our published forecasts of future results of operations•Quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations and changes in market share•The announcement of new products, product enhancements, or partnerships by us or our competitors•Our ability to develop, introduce, ship, and support new products and product enhancements and manage product transitions•Repurchases of our common shares under our repurchase plans•Our decision to declare dividends or increase or decrease dividends over historical rates•The loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees•Changes in earnings estimates, recommendations, or ratings by securities analysts or a reduction in the number of analysts following our stock•Developments in our industry, including new or increased enforcement of existing governmental regulations related to our products and new or revised communications standards•Concentrated ownership of our common stock by a limited number of institutional investors that may limit liquidity for investors interested in acquiring or selling positions in our common stock, particularly substantial positions•Sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market by us, our officers or directors, or unaffiliated third parties, including institutional investors•General economic, political, and market conditions, including market volatility•Litigation brought by or against us•Other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitorsOur business could be materially adversely affected if we lose the benefit of the services of key personnel.Our success depends to a large extent upon the services of a limited number of executive officers and other key employees. The unanticipated loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, on April 14, 2013, we announced that our President and CEO, Ken Kannappan, was taking a temporary medical leave of absence to address a treatable form of cancer. His leave is currently expected to last approximately four months. In the interim, our Board of Directors has named our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Pam Strayer, as Acting Interim Chief Executive Officer. Should Mr. Kannappan's leave be extended or if his absence is perceived by investors and analysts as materially negative for any reason, they may sell our stock or enact other strategies that may cause our stock price to decline. 23Table of ContentsWe also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.Our purchase of property and a facility in Tijuana, Mexico, the expansion of the facilities to meet our operating needs, and the transfer of certain responsibilities to Tijuana could affect our operating results.In June 2012, we announced the purchase of property and an existing building in Tijuana, Mexico. We are in the process of modifying and expanding the building by approximately one-third and intend to move all of our Tijuana operations, currently divided into four leased buildings in Tijuana, into the new facility after completion of construction, estimated to be in July 2013. We currently expect that, when completed, the cost of the property and building, along with the modifications and expansion of the existing building, will approximate $31 million, an increase of $1 million over prior estimates. Construction projects of this size and scope are complex and prone to cost overruns, unexpected contingencies, and delays in obtaining construction and governmental permits. As part of the expansion process, we are also concurrently consolidating a portion of our worldwide operations by transferring some responsibilities to Tijuana. Our failure or inability to oversee and manage the construction, operations, and costs of our facilities in Tijuana, any delays in the construction or transition of operations into the new facility, or issues arising with the transfer of responsibilities to Tijuana, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We have $16.4 million of goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. If the carrying value of our goodwill were to exceed its implied fair value, or if the carrying value of intangible assets were not recoverable, an impairment loss may be recognized, which would adversely affect our financial results.As a result of past acquisitions, including an immaterial acquisition in the quarter ended September 30, 2012, we have $16.4 million of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2013. It is impossible at this time to determine if any future impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such charge related to these assets would be material. If such a charge is necessary, it may have a material adverse effect our financial results.If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation may be damaged, and we may be financially liable for damages.We rely on networks, information systems, and other technology (“information systems”), including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business activities, including procurement, manufacturing, sales, distribution, invoicing, and collections. We use information systems to process and report financial information internally and to comply with regulatory reporting. In addition, we depend on information systems for communications with our suppliers, distributors, and customers. Consequently, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns or service disruptions during routine operations, such as system upgrades or user errors, as well as network or hardware failures, malicious software, hackers, natural disasters, communications interruptions, or other events (collectively, "network incidents"). Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to network incidents. While, to date, the Company has not experienced a network incident resulting in material impairment to our operations, nor have we experienced material intentional or inadvertent disclosure of our data or information or the information or data of our customers or vendors, future network incidents could result in unintended disruption of our operations or disclosure of sensitive information or assets. Furthermore, we may experience targeted attacks and although we continue to invest in personnel, technologies, and training to prepare for and reduce the adverse consequences of such attacks, these investments are expensive and do not guarantee that such attacks will be unsuccessful, either completely or partially.If our information systems are disrupted or shutdown and we fail to timely and effectively resolve the issues, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits. Misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation, and have a negative impact on net operating results. In addition, we may suffer financial damage and damage to our reputation because of loss or misappropriation of our confidential information or assets, or those of our partners, customers, or suppliers. We could also be required to expend significant effort and incur financial costs to remedy security breaches or to repair or replace networks and information systems. 24Table of ContentsWar, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which could negatively affect our operations and performance.War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused or could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, us, and our suppliers or customers. Our major business operations and those of many of our vendors and their sub-suppliers (collectively, "Suppliers") are subject to interruption by disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, and volcanic eruptions or other natural or manmade disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, public health issues, flu or similar epidemics or pandemics, and other events beyond our control and the control of our Suppliers. Our corporate headquarters, information technology, manufacturing, certain research and development activities, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults or flood zones. While we are partially insured for earthquake-related losses or floods, our operating results and financial condition could be materially affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or manmade disaster.Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any of the events described above, such events could significantly disrupt our operations or the operations of our Suppliers. In addition, should any of the events above arise we could be negatively impacted by the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions, delays in production, and disruptions in the operations of our Suppliers. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by these events.We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management and independent registered public accounting firm are required to report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements.We have and will continue to consume management resources and incur significant expenses for Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, and we may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. If this were to occur, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits, or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments, and causing investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in a decline in the market price of our stock.Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law or a decision by our Board of Directors in the future may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could decrease the value of our stock.Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could also have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition by a third party. Further, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25Table of Contents