Risk Factors Lawsuits and regulatory proceedings could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we, our directors and/or certain of our current and former officers are named as a party to lawsuits and regulatory proceedings. A discussion of our material lawsuits appears in Note 14 — Contingencies and Commitments included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-2. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the likely outcome of these actions, an adverse result in any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on us. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us could result in significant damage claims and other losses. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information, see Note 14 — Contingencies and Commitments and Note 20 — Accounting for Claims, Unapproved Change Orders and Incentives on Long-Term Construction Contracts included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-2. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our technology becomes obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. We believe that we are an industry leader by owning or having access to our technologies. We protect our technology positions through patent registrations, license restrictions and a research and development program. We may not be able to successfully preserve our intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. law. Because we license technologies from third parties, there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or 34 Table of Contents expire or may be interrupted or harmed. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. Additionally, if our technologies become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our clients. For example, we believe that Westinghouse’s AP1000 technology is a leading technology for nuclear power generation plants. However, there are competing technologies, and it is likely that new technologies will be developed in the future. We also believe that our induction pipe bending technology, know-how and capabilities favorably influence our ability to compete successfully. Currently, this technology and our proprietary software are not patented. Even though we have some legal protections against the dissemination of this technology, including non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, our efforts to prevent others from using our technology could be time-consuming, expensive and ultimately may be unsuccessful or only partially successful. Finally, there is nothing to prevent our competitors from independently attempting to develop or obtain access to technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 35 Table of Contents 