Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our investment in Westinghouse Electric Company could have an adverse effect on us. Although the Westinghouse Electric Company (Westinghouse) acquisition is very significant to us, Westinghouse was part of British Nuclear Fuels Ltd. and was not separately audited, accordingly, we do not have audited financial information for the Westinghouse business. We expect to have audited historical information and pro forma financial statements available within 75 days of closing. However, we can’t give any assurance as to what those financials will show, or whether, if available now, they would affect investment decisions relating to our securities. If we don’t get financial statements when required, we may be prevented from using Form S-3 which could impact our ability to access the capital markets. We will incur significant interest cost on the bonds that we sold to finance this acquisition. We can’t assure that we will receive dividends in an amount sufficient to cover these costs. We will have very limited control rights with respect to our investment. We will have a member on the board of Westinghouse acquisition companies, but generally will not have any rights to control the outcome of material decisions and activities related to the Westinghouse business. In addition, we will have limited access to and ability to disclose the details of the Westinghouse business and its operations. We can’t assure that this information, if disclosed, would not be material. We are subject to certain limitations on our ability to sell our investment without the approval of the other shareholders. In addition, under the terms of our shareholders’ agreements relating to the Westinghouse investment, the other shareholders of Westinghouse would have a right to require us to sell our shares to them if we undergo certain change of control events or if Shaw or NEH goes bankrupt. In addition, when the financing for our investment matures in 2013 (or earlier in the event of certain defaults), we would be required to either refinance such indebtedness or to exercise our put option to sell our investment back to Toshiba. As a result, we could lose our investment in Westinghouse. Although we have obtained certain exclusive rights to participate in Westinghouse advanced passive AP 1000 nuclear plant projects and preferred rights to provide other services we can’t give any assurance that we will obtain significant business from this arrangement. 18 Table of Contents Demand for our products and services is cyclical and vulnerable to downturns in the industries to which we market our products and services. The demand for our products and services depends on conditions in the environmental and infrastructure industry and the energy industry, which accounted for approximately 30% and 49%, respectively, of our backlog as of August 31, 2006, and, to a lesser extent, on conditions in the petrochemical, chemical and refining industries. These industries historically have been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the domestic and international economies. Consequently, our results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate depending on the demand for products and services from these industries. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future earnings. As of August 31, 2006, our backlog was approximately $9.1 billion. There can be no assurance that the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Further, project terminations, suspensions or adjustments in scope may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. Our backlog consists of projects for which we have signed contracts or commitments from customers but does not include projects that we expect will be performed in more than five years after the date of our financial statements. Commitments may be in the form of written contracts for specific projects, letters of intent, purchase orders, or indications of the amounts of time and materials we need to make available for customers’ anticipated projects. Backlog includes expected revenue based on engineering and design specifications that may not be final and could be revised over time. Backlog includes revenues for maintenance contracts that may not specify actual dollar amounts of maintenance work to be performed. For these contracts, backlog is based on an estimate of work to be performed based on our knowledge of customers’ historic maintenance requirements. The amount of future actual awards may be more or less than our estimates. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. Many of the contracts in backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. However, we typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition could be significantly adversely affected. Backlog estimates are reviewed periodically and adjustments are made to the amounts included in backlog. Our backlog does not include any projects (funded or unfunded) that we expect will be performed more than five years after the date of our financial statements. The amount of future actual projects may be more or less than our estimates. Our projects may encounter difficulties that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues, claims, disputes or the payment of damages. Our projects generally involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies, and extensive construction management. We may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering, equipment and supply delivery, schedule changes, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. In addition, we generally rely on third-party equipment manufacturers as well as third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of our 19 Table of Contents contracts. In some cases, the equipment we purchase for a project or that is provided to us by the customer does not perform as expected, and these performance failures may result in delays in completion of the project or additional costs to us or the customer and, in some cases, may require us to obtain alternate equipment at additional cost. Any delay by subcontractors to complete their portion of the project, or any failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily complete its portion of the project, and other factors beyond our control may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or cause us to incur additional costs, or both. These delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to compensate the customer for these delays. While we may recover these additional costs from the responsible vendor, subcontractor or other third-party, we may not be able to recover all of these costs in all circumstances. In addition, certain contracts may require our customers to provide us with design or engineering information or with equipment or materials to be used on the project. In some cases, the customer may provide us with deficient design or engineering information or equipment or may provide the information or equipment to us later than required by the project schedule. The customer may also determine, after commencement of the project, to change various elements of the project. Our EPC project contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred due to customer requested change orders or failure of the customer to provide us with specified design or engineering information or equipment. We are subject to the risk that we might be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred due to customer requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely provide required items. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record an adjustment to amounts of revenues and gross profit that were recognized in prior periods. Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our use of the percentage-of-completion accounting method could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As is more fully discussed in Item 7 and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this report, a substantial portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion, or POC, method of accounting, which is a standard method for engineering, procurement and construction, or EPC, contracts. The POC accounting practices that we use result in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Although a significant portion of our contracts are cost-reimbursable and our financial loss exposure on cost-reimbursable contracts is generally limited, it is possible that the loss provisions or adjustments to the contract profit and loss resulting from future changes in our estimates or contract penalty provisions could be significant and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings or result in losses. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be material to our operating results. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include, among other things: • contract costs and profits and application of the POC method of accounting; • revenues recognized, and reduction of costs recognized, as a result of contract claim; • recoverability of inventory and application of lower of cost or market accounting; • provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; • provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; 20 Table of Contents • recoverability of goodwill; • recoverability of other intangibles and related estimated lives; • valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; • valuation of defined benefit pension plans; and • accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. Non-compliance with covenants in our Credit Facility, without waiver or amendment from the lenders of the Credit Facility, could adversely affect our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility. Our Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants, including a leverage ratio, a minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio, and a defined minimum net worth. In addition, the defined terms used in calculating the financial covenants, in accordance with the Credit Facility, require us to follow generally accepted accounting principles, which requires the use of judgments and estimates, and may change from time to time based on new accounting pronouncements. We may not be able to satisfy these ratios, especially if our operating results fall below management’s expectations as a result of, but not limited to, the impact of other risk factors that may have a negative impact on our future earnings. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our Credit Facility. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our Credit Facility, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments. In the event of any default not waived, the lenders under our credit facility are not required to lend any additional amounts to us and could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings and cash collateralize any outstanding letters of credit at the time of default. If we are unable to repay borrowings with respect to our Credit Facility when due, our lenders could proceed against their collateral, which consists of substantially all of our assets, including property, equipment and real estate. If the indebtedness under our Credit Facility is accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. As of August 31, 2006, we had $145.5 million outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility with outstanding letters of credit inclusive of both domestic financial and domestic performance of approximately $319.1 million and indebtedness under our Senior Notes of $15.1 million. In addition, although our Senior Notes contain no cross-default provisions, we have entered into indemnity agreements with our sureties that contain cross-default provisions. Accordingly, in the event of a default under our Credit Facility, we would need to obtain a waiver from our sureties or an amendment to our indemnity agreements. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in obtaining any such amendment or waiver. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our Credit Facility restricts on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions to our shareholders; • repurchase or redeem our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make investments; • create liens; 21 Table of Contents • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; • incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; • make capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with our shareholders and affiliates; • sell and pledge assets; and • acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. Our Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a defined minimum net worth. We may not be able to satisfy these ratios, especially if our operating results fall below management’s expectations. In addition, in order to remain in compliance with the covenants in our Credit Facility, we may be limited in our flexibility to take actions resulting in non-cash charges, such as settling our claims. These covenants may impair our ability to engage in favorable business activities and our ability to finance future operations or capital needs. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our Credit Facility. See Risk Factor, “Non-compliance with covenants in our Credit Facility, without waiver or amendment from the lenders of the Credit Facility, could adversely affect our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility.” Our borrowing levels and debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to fulfill our obligations under our Senior Notes and our Credit Facility. As of August 31, 2006, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $185.1 million, approximately $158.4 million of which was secured indebtedness, including obligations under capital leases. In addition, as of August 31, 2006, letters of credit, domestic and foreign, issued for our account in an aggregate amount of $323.2 million were outstanding and we had borrowings of $145.5 million under our Credit Facility. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • it will require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available for other business purposes; • it will limit our ability to obtain additional financing and create additional liens on our assets; • it will limit our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are more leveraged than our competitors; • it may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • it may restrict us from making additional investments or acquisitions. To the extent that new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. We are currently the subject of an informal inquiry by the SEC. On June 1, 2004, we were notified by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, that the staff is conducting an informal inquiry relating to our financial statements. The SEC has not advised us as to either the reason for the inquiry or its precise scope. However, the initial requests for information we received appear to 22 Table of Contents primarily relate to the purchase method of accounting for various acquisitions. We have been cooperating with the SEC, including providing documents and responding to requests for voluntary production, as well as conducting a detailed review of our accounting for our acquisitions. Subsequent to an internal review which led to the restatement of our financial statements for the second quarter of 2006, as reflected in a press release we announced on July 10, 2006, with a Current Report on Form 8-K, the SEC also requested information related to the restatement. This included information regarding the clerical error in the computation of the amount of revenue recognized on a construction contract and the misapplication of GAAP in our accounting for a minority interest in a joint venture. The SEC’s review may have additional consequences independent of the inquiry, including further restatement of our financial results for past periods. In addition, if the SEC takes further action, it may escalate the informal inquiry into a formal investigation, which may result in an enforcement action or other legal proceedings against us and potentially members of our management. Responding to such actions or proceedings have been and could continue to be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team, including senior officers. If any such action or proceeding is resolved unfavorably to us or any of them, we or they could be subject to injunctions, fines, increased review and scrutiny by regulatory authorities and other penalties or sanctions, including criminal sanctions, that could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial performance, liquidity and future prospects and materially adversely affect the trading market and price of our stock. Any unfavorable actions could also result in private civil actions, loss of key personnel or other adverse consequences. Lawsuits and regulatory proceedings could adversely affect our business. From time to time, our directors and certain of our current and former officers are named as a party to lawsuits and regulatory proceedings. A discussion of these lawsuits appears in Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements. Although it is not possible at this early stage to predict the likely outcome of these actions, an adverse result in any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on us. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us could result in significant damage claims and other losses. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Notes 14 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements in this report. Downgrades by rating agencies may require us to modify existing bonding facilities or obtain new bonding facilities. In the event our debt ratings are lowered by Moody’s Investors Service or Standards and Poor’s it might be more difficult for us to obtain surety bonding for new projects in the future, and we may be required to increase or provide cash collateral to obtain these surety bonds, which would reduce our available cash or availability under our Credit Facility. Any new or modified bonding facilities might not be on terms as attractive as those we have currently and we could also be subject to increased costs of capital and interest rates. The nature of our contracts could adversely affect us. Approximately 60% of our backlog as of August 31, 2006 was from cost-reimbursable contracts and the remaining 40% was from fixed-price contracts. Revenues and gross profit from cost-reimbursable, long-term contracts can be significantly affected by contract incentives/penalties that may not be known or finalized until the later stages of the contract term. A significant number of our domestic piping contracts, and substantially all of our international piping contracts, are fixed-price. In addition, a number of the contracts we assumed in the Stone & Webster and IT Group acquisitions were fixed-price contracts, and we will continue to enter into these types of contracts in the future. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the contract for a fixed-price and, as a result, benefit from costs savings and earnings from approved change orders; but we are generally unable to recover any cost overruns to the approved contract price. Under maximum price contracts, we share with the customer any savings up to a negotiated or target ceiling. When costs exceed the negotiated ceiling price, we may be required to reduce our fee or to absorb some or all of the cost overruns. Contract prices are established based, in part, on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding future economic conditions. If these estimates prove inaccurate or circumstances change, cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business and results 23 Table of Contents of our operations. Our profit for these projects could decrease or we could experience losses if we are unable to secure fixed pricing commitments from our suppliers at the time the contracts are entered into or if we experience cost increases for material or labor during the performance of the contracts. We enter into contractual agreements with customers for some of our engineering, procurement and construction services to be performed based on agreed upon reimbursable costs and labor rates. Some of these contracts provide for the customer’s review of the accounting and cost control systems to verify the completeness and accuracy of the reimbursable costs invoiced. These reviews could result in reductions in reimbursable costs and labor rates previously billed to the customer. Many of our contracts require us to satisfy specified design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for the work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achievement of the applicable milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of services prior to receipt of payment. If the customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project or if the customer defaults on its payment obligations, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. In addition, many of our customers for large EPC projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the EPC project. It may be difficult for us to collect amounts owed to us by these customers against the customer’s more credit-worthy parent company. If we are unable to collect amounts owed to us for these matters, we may be required to record a charge against earnings related to the project which could result in a material loss. We are subject to the risks associated with being a government contractor. We are a major provider of services to governmental agencies and therefore are exposed to risks associated with government contracting, including reductions in government spending, cancelled or delayed appropriations specific to our projects, heightened competition and modified or terminated contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the year ended August 31, 2006, 31% of backlog was generated from U.S. governmental agencies. Legislatures typically appropriate funds on a year-by-year basis, while contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, contracts may be only partially funded, and we may not realize all of our potential revenues and profits from our contracts. Appropriations, and the timing of payment, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. Government customers typically can terminate or modify contracts with us at their convenience. As a result, our backlog may be reduced or we may incur a loss. As a result of our government contracting business, we are the subject of audits, cost reviews and investigations by contracting oversight agencies. During the course of an audit, the oversight agency may disallow costs. Such cost disallowances may result in adjustments to previously reported revenues. In addition, our failure to comply with the terms of one or more of our government contracts, other government agreements, or government regulations and statutes could result in our being suspended or barred from future government projects for a significant period of time and possible civil or criminal fines and penalties and the risk of public scrutiny of our performance which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts could adversely affect us. In certain circumstances, we guarantee facility completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any such schedule or performance requirements could result in additional costs, and the amount of such additional costs could exceed projected profits. These additional costs include liquidated damages paid under contractual penalty provisions, which can be substantial and can accrue on a daily basis. In addition, our actual costs could exceed our projections. Performance problems for existing and future contracts could cause actual results of operations to differ materially from those anticipated by us and could cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and our client base. For examples of the kinds of claims which may result from liquidated damages provisions and cost overruns, see Note 20 of our consolidated financial statements. 24 Table of Contents Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss. We rely on third-party equipment manufacturers as well as third-party subcontractors to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price work, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. Possible cost escalation associated with our fixed-price contracts could negatively affect our profitability. We estimate total contract costs in pricing our fixed-price contracts by incorporating assumptions to address inflation and fluctuations in market price for materials. However, we can not predict these variable components with certainty. As a result, we may incur total costs that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, which could contribute to a lower than expected return or losses on our projects that are not governed by escalation clauses. Our results of operations depend on new contract awards and the timing for performing these contracts. A substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly derived from large-scale domestic and international projects. It is difficult to predict whether and when we will receive such awards due to the lengthy and complex bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements, governmental approvals and environmental matters. Because a significant portion of our revenues is generated from large projects, our results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our contract awards. In addition, many of these contracts are subject to financing contingencies and, as a result, we are subject to the risk that the customer will not be able to secure the necessary financing for the project. Our ability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. In certain circumstances, customers may require us to provide credit enhancements, including bonds or letters of credit. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance and surety bonds to customers. These bonds indemnify the customer if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. We have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. The uncertainty of our contract award timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In some cases, we maintain and bear the cost of a ready workforce that is larger than called for under existing contracts in anticipation of future workforce needs for expected contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our significant customers vary between years, and the loss of any one or more of our key customers could have a material adverse impact on us. 25 Table of Contents Our environmental and infrastructure operations may subject us to potential contractual and operational costs and liabilities. Many of our E&I segment customers attempt to shift financial and operating risks to the contractor, particularly on projects involving large scale cleanups and/or projects where there may be a risk that the contamination could be more extensive or difficult to resolve than previously anticipated. In this competitive market, customers pressure contractors to accept greater risks of performance, liability for damage or injury to third parties or property and liability for fines and penalties. Prior to our acquisition of the IT Group, the IT Group was involved in claims and litigation involving disputes over such issues. Therefore, it is possible that we could also become involved in similar claims and litigation in the future as a result of our acquisition of the assets of IT Group and our participation in separate environmental and infrastructure contracts. Environmental management contractors also potentially face liabilities to third parties for property damage or personal injury stemming from exposure to or a release of toxic, hazardous or radioactive substances resulting from a project performed for customers. These liabilities could arise long after completion of a project. Although the risks we face in our anthrax and other biological agent work are similar to those faced in our toxic chemical emergency response business, the risks posed by attempting to detect and remediate these biological agents may include risks to our employees, subcontractors and others may be affected should our detection and remediation prove less effective than anticipated. Because anthrax and similar contamination is so recent, there may be unknown risks involved; and in some circumstances, there may be no types of standard protocols for dealing with these risks. The risks we face with respect to biological agents may also include the potential ineffectiveness of developing technologies to detect and remediate the contamination, claims for infringement of these technologies, difficulties in working with the smaller, specialized firms that may own these technologies and have detection and remediation capabilities, our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and subcontractors in light of these risks, the high profile nature of the work and the potential unavailability of insurance and indemnification. We are exposed to certain risks associated with our integrated environmental solutions businesses. Certain subsidiaries within our E&I division are engaged in two similar programs that may involve assumption of a client’s environmental remediation obligations and potential claim obligations. One program involves our subsidiary, The LandBank Group, Inc., (LandBank), which was acquired in the IT Group acquisition. Under this program, LandBank purchases and then remediates and/or takes other steps to improve environmentally impaired properties. The second program is operated by our subsidiary, Shaw Environmental Liability Solutions, LLC, which contractually assumes responsibility for environmental matters at a particular site or sites and provides indemnifications for defined cleanup costs and post closing third party claims in return for compensation by the client. These subsidiaries may operate and/or purchase and redevelop environmentally impaired property. As the owner or operator of such properties, we may be required to clean up all contamination at these sites even if we did not place the contamination there. While we attempt to reduce our exposure to unplanned risks through the performance of environmental due diligence, the use of liability protection provisions of federal laws like the Brownfields Revitalization Act and similar state laws and the purchase of environmental and cost cap insurance coverage or other risk management products, we cannot assure you that our risk management strategies and these products and laws will adequately protect us in all circumstances or that no material adverse impact will occur. Our ability to be profitable in this type of business also depends on our ability to accurately estimate cleanup costs. While we engage in comprehensive engineering and cost analyses, if we materially underestimate the required cost of cleanup at a particular project, underestimation could significantly adversely affect us. Further, the continued growth of this type of business is dependent upon the availability of environmental and cost cap insurance or other risk management products. We cannot be assured or provide assurance that such products will continue to be available to us in the future or, if it is available, at an economically feasible cost. Moreover, environmental laws and regulations governing the cleanup of contaminated sites are constantly changing. We cannot predict the effect of future changes to these laws and regulations on our LandBank and Environmental Liability Solutions businesses. Additionally, when we purchase real estate in this business, we are subject to many of the same risks as real estate developers, including the timely receipt of building and zoning permits, construction delays, the ability of markets to absorb new development projects, market fluctuations and the ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing on satisfactory terms, among others. 26 Table of Contents The limitation or the modification of the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification authority could adversely affect our business. The Price-Anderson Act (PAA) comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials, while promoting the nuclear energy industry by offering broad indemnification to nuclear energy plant operators and DOE contractors. Because we provide services for the DOE relating to its nuclear weapons facilities and the nuclear energy industry in the ongoing maintenance and modification, as well as decontamination and decommissioning, of its nuclear energy plants, we are entitled to the indemnification protections under the PAA. Although the PAA’s indemnification provisions are broad, it does not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a radioactive materials cleanup contractor for the DOE and the nuclear energy industry. If the indemnification authority is not applicable, our business could be adversely affected by either a refusal of operations of new facilities to retain us or our inability to obtain commercially adequate insurance and indemnification. Environmental factors and changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities and affect the demand for our services. In addition to the environmental risks described above relating to the businesses acquired from IT Group and our environmental remediation business, our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning: • emissions into the air; • discharges into waterways; • generation, storage, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes; and • health and safety. Our projects often involve highly regulated materials, including hazardous and nuclear materials and wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain a permit and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to perform under existing contracts. In addition, under CERCLA and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose joint and several liability without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of the materials, and liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party. The principal federal environmental, health and safety legislation affecting our operations and the operations of our clients include the National Environmental Policy Act; the RCRA; the Clean Air Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; CERCLA; and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, as each has been amended from time to time. Our foreign operations are also subject to similar governmental controls and restrictions relating to environmental protection. We could also incur environmental liability at sites where we have been hired by potentially responsible parties (PRPs) to remediate contamination of the site. Such PRPs have sought to expand the reach of CERCLA, RCRA and similar state statutes to make the remediation contractor responsible for cleanup costs. These companies claim that environmental contractors are owners or operators of hazardous waste facilities or that the contractors arranged for treatment, transportation or disposal of hazardous substances. If we are held responsible under CERCLA or RCRA for damages caused while performing services or otherwise, we may be forced to incur cleanup costs directly, notwithstanding the potential availability of contribution or indemnification from other parties. Over the past several years, the EPA and other federal agencies have significantly constricted the circumstances under which they will indemnify their contractors against liabilities incurred in connection with the investigation and remediation of contaminated properties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, or CERCLA, and similar projects. 27 Table of Contents The environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly changing, and it is impossible to predict the effect of any future changes to these laws and regulations on us. We do not yet know the full extent, if any, of environmental liabilities associated with many of our recently acquired properties undergoing or scheduled to undergo site restoration, as well as any liabilities associated with the assets we acquired from Stone & Webster and IT Group. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations and that such noncompliance would not significantly adversely affect us. The level of enforcement of these laws and regulations also affects the demand for many of our services. The perception that enforcement of current environmental laws and regulations has been reduced has decreased the demand for some services. Future changes to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or to enforcement of those laws and regulations could result in increased or decreased demand for some of our services. The ultimate impact of the proposed changes will depend upon a number of factors, including the overall strength of the economy and clients’ views on the cost-effectiveness of remedies available under the changed laws and regulations. If proposed or enacted changes materially reduce demand for our environmental services, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Development and construction risks and other risks associated with our military family housing privatization contracts could impact our profitability and a loss of our investment. Development and construction activities conducted through various joint ventures with one strategic partner expose us to risks including: • our ability to obtain necessary permitting, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations on a timely basis, which could result in increased development costs; • the incurrence of construction costs related to new construction or renovations that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, which costs could contribute to a lower than expected return; • our ability to complete construction of a property on schedule and meet financial goals for development; and • the incurrence of higher construction costs or experience in project delays if we are not successful in forming strategic alliances with key material suppliers and vendors. Other risks directly associated with our dependence on the U.S. military include: • our ability to obtain the necessary levels of occupancy and rents, which could result in lower than expected returns and in some cases losses. Rents are determined by Congress annually through appropriations for Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) for all of the branches of the U.S. military. We cannot be assured that the appropriations each year will occur on a timely basis, or that the amount of BAH appropriations will be sufficient to keep up with escalations in the cost of living expenses. Congress may change the law and the DOD can revise its procedures at any time. We cannot be assured that such changes will not be made and, if changes are made, such changes may have a material adverse effect on the level of our income generated by our privatization projects, if rental income is not sufficient to cover project debt service requirements the joint venture may need to supplement income from fees or other sources. • our ability to guarantee the military bases where we have military family housing projects will remain active or that their functions and/or staffing levels will not be materially reduced such that we will be unable to lease military family housing units to members of the U.S. military. The DOD has, from time to time, closed military bases and realigned and/or reduced the functions and staffing levels at certain bases under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) initiative. Ultimately, these risks could have an adverse effect on our profitability and expose us to possible losses as well as the loss of our investment in these military family housing privatizations. During fiscal 2006, we contributed $5.6 million to these housing privatizations. 28 Table of Contents Our working capital requirements may increase as a result of our work associated with the military family housing privatization market. These privatization contracts require initial capital contributions in the early stages of the project and ultimately permanent financing from a third party lender. As of August 31, 2006, we were not scheduled to make any significant equity contributions during fiscal 2007. In addition, because occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed property may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, we may be unable to meet our profitability goals for that property. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to loss of reputation and additional financial performance obligations that could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses. We often enter into various joint ventures as part of our environmental and engineering, procurement and construction businesses so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. The success of these and other joint ventures depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our joint venture partners. If our partners do not meet their obligations, the joint venture may be unable to adequately perform and deliver its contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. Our dependence on one or a few customers could adversely affect us. Due to the size of many engineering and construction projects, one or a few clients have historically and may in the future, contributed to a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues. For example, in fiscal 2006, approximately 51% of our revenues were generated from 10 major customers, including governments. Similarly, our backlog frequently reflects multiple projects for individual clients; therefore, one major customer may comprise a significant percentage of our backlog at a point in time. Backlog from the U.S. government or U.S. government-owned entities accounted for 31% of backlog at August 31, 2006. Because these significant customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose these customers from year to year as their projects with us are completed. If we do not replace them with other customers or other projects, our business could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we have long-standing relationships with many significant customers, including customers with which we have alliance agreements that have preferred pricing arrangements. However, our contracts with these customers are on a project by project basis, and they may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their purchases at any time. The loss of business from any one of such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. Our projects expose us to potential professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims. We engineer, construct and perform services in large industrial facilities in which accidents or system failures can be disastrous. Any catastrophic occurrences in excess of insurance limits at locations engineered or constructed by us or where our products are installed or services performed could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims against us. In addition, under some of our contracts, we must use new metals or processes for producing or fabricating pipe for our customers. The failure of any of these metals or processes could result in warranty claims against us for significant replacement or reworking costs. 29 Table of Contents Further, the engineering and construction projects we perform expose us to additional risks including cost overruns, equipment failures, personal injuries, property damage, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, weather problems and unforeseen engineering, architectural, environmental and geological problems. In addition, once our construction is complete, we may face claims with respect to the performance of these facilities. We face substantial competition in each of our business segments. In our E&I segment, we compete with a diverse array of small and large organizations, including national and regional environmental management firms, national, regional and local architectural, engineering and construction firms, environmental management divisions or subsidiaries of international engineering, construction and systems companies, and waste generators that have developed in-house capabilities. Increased competition in this business, combined with changes in client procurement procedures, has resulted in changes in the industry, including among other things, lower contract profits, more fixed-price or unit-price contracts and contract terms that may increasingly require us to indemnify our clients against damages or injuries to third parties and property and environmental fines and penalties. We believe, therefore, these market conditions may require us to accept more contractual and performance risk than we have historically accepted for the environmental and infrastructure segment to be competitive. The entry of large systems contractors and international engineering and construction firms into the environmental services industry has increased competition for major federal government contracts and programs, which have been a primary source of revenue in recent years for our E&I business. There can be no assurance that our E&I segment will be able to compete successfully. In our E&C and Maintenance segments, we face competition from numerous regional, national and international competitors, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors include well-established, well-financed concerns, both privately and publicly held, including many major energy equipment manufacturers and engineering and construction companies, some engineering companies, internal engineering departments at utilities and certain of our customers. The markets that we serve require substantial resources and particularly highly skilled and experienced technical personnel. In our F&M segment, we face substantial competition on a domestic and international level. In the U.S., there are a number of smaller pipe fabricators. Internationally, our principal competitors are divisions of large industrial firms. Some of our competitors, primarily in the international sector, have greater financial and other resources than we do. Political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect us. Approximately 12% of our fiscal 2006 revenues were attributable to projects in international markets, some of which are subject to political unrest and uncertainty. The services we provide to our customers in Iraq and other Middle East countries have created several challenges, including identifying and retaining the appropriate subcontractors, the recruiting of qualified personnel and the ability to retain them, the safety of our employees and subcontractors and the increased working capital demands. It is possible that our employees may suffer injury or death, repatriation problems or other unforeseen costs and risks in the course of their international projects, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition to the specific challenges we face in the Middle East, international contracts, operations and expansion expose us to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S., including: • uncertain economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we make capital investments, operate and sell products and services; • the lack of well-developed legal systems and less established or traditional business practices in some countries in which we operate and sell products and services, which could make it difficult for us to enforce our contractual rights; 30 Table of Contents • security and safety of employees; • expropriation of property; • restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency; • political risks, including risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities and insurrection; • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; • currency fluctuations; • logistical and communications challenges; • potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws; • changes in labor conditions; • exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • general economic and political conditions in foreign markets. Work stoppages and other labor problems could adversely affect us. Some of our employees in the U.S. and abroad are represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppage at any of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on us. From time to time, we have also experienced attempts to unionize our non-union shops. While these efforts have achieved limited success to date, we cannot give any assurance that we will not experience additional union activity in the future. Because of the capital-intensive nature of our business, we are vulnerable to reductions in our liquidity. Our operations could require us to utilize large sums of working capital, sometimes on short notice and sometimes without assurance of recovery of the expenditures. Circumstances or events could create large cash outflows include losses resulting from fixed-price contracts, environmental liabilities, litigation risks, unexpected costs or losses resulting from acquisitions, contract initiation or completion delays, political conditions, customer payment problems, foreign exchange risks, professional and product liability claims, among others. We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity or the credit capacity to meet all of our cash needs if we encounter significant working capital requirements as a result of these or other factors. Insufficient liquidity could have important consequences to us. For example, we could: • have less operating flexibility due to restrictions which could be imposed by our creditors, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, creating liens on our properties and paying dividends; • have less success in obtaining new work if our sureties or our lenders were to limit our ability to provide new performance bonds or letters of credit for our projects; • be required to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest associated with that debt; • fail to comply with the terms of our credit facility; • incur increased lending fees, costs and interest rates; and • experience difficulty in financing future acquisitions and/or continuing operations. 31 Table of Contents Foreign exchange risks may affect our ability to realize a profit from certain projects or to obtain projects. We generally attempt to denominate our contracts in U.S. dollars. However, from time to time we enter into contracts denominated in a foreign currency. This practice subjects us to foreign exchange risks, particularly to the extent contract revenues are denominated in a currency different than the contract costs. We attempt to minimize our exposure from foreign exchange risks by obtaining escalation provisions for projects in inflationary economies, matching the contract revenues currency with the contract costs currency or entering into hedge contracts when there are different currencies for contract revenues and costs. However, these actions will not always eliminate all foreign exchange risks. Foreign exchange controls may also adversely affect us. For instance, foreign exchange controls were instituted in Venezuela on February 6, 2003. These controls may limit our ability to repatriate profits from our Venezuelan subsidiaries or otherwise convert local currency into U.S. dollars. Further, our ability to obtain international contracts is impacted by the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies. We may incur unexpected liabilities associated with the Stone & Webster and IT Group acquisitions, as well as other acquisitions. In July 2000, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain liabilities of Stone & Webster, Inc., and during fiscal 2002, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain liabilities of The IT Group, Inc. We believe, pursuant to the terms of the agreements for the Stone & Webster and IT Group asset acquisitions that we assumed only certain liabilities specified in those agreements. In addition, those agreements provide that certain other liabilities, including but not limited to, certain outstanding borrowings, certain leases, certain contracts in process, completed contracts, claims or litigation that relate to acts or events occurring prior to the acquisition date, and certain employee benefit obligations are specifically excluded from our transactions. There can be no assurance, however, that we do not have any exposure related to the excluded liabilities. In addition, some of the former owners of companies we have acquired are contractually required to indemnify us against liabilities related to the operation of their companies before we acquired them and for misrepresentations made by them in connection with the acquisitions. In some cases, these former owners may not have the financial ability to meet their indemnification responsibilities. If this occurs, we may incur unexpected liabilities. Any of these unexpected liabilities could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. If we write off a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill was approximately $506.6 million as of August 31, 2006. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. We also have long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets of $206.5 million as of August 31, 2006, which are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If a determination that a significant impairment in value of our unamortized intangible assets or long-lived assets occurs, that determination would require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets and would negatively affect our earnings. Difficulties integrating our acquisitions could adversely affect us. From time to time, we acquire businesses and assets to pursue market opportunities, increase our existing capabilities and expand into new areas of operation. We plan to pursue select acquisitions in the future. If we are unable to complete acquisitions we have identified, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may encounter difficulties integrating our future acquisitions and in successfully managing the growth we expect from the acquisitions. In addition, our expansion into new business areas may expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have traditionally experienced. To the extent we encounter problems in identifying acquisition risks or integrating our acquisitions, we could be materially adversely affected. Because we may pursue acquisitions globally and may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. 32 Table of Contents Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key officers, could have an adverse effect on us. Our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, scientists and other professional personnel in accordance with our needs, either through direct hiring or acquisition of other firms employing such professionals, is an important factor in determining our future success. The market for these professionals is competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain needed professionals. In addition, our ability to be successful depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled laborers and craftsmen in our pipe fabrication and construction businesses. Demand for these workers can at times be high and the supply extremely limited. Our success is also highly dependent upon the continued services of our key officers. The loss of any of our key officers could adversely affect us. We do not maintain key employee insurance on any of our executive officers. Changes in technology could adversely affect us, and our competitors may develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology. We believe that we are an industry leader in the design and construction of ethylene processing plants. We protect our position through patent registrations, license restrictions and a research and development program. However, it is possible that others may develop competing processes that could negatively affect our market position. Additionally, we have developed construction and energy generation and transmission software that we believe provide competitive advantages. The advantages currently provided by this software could be at risk if competitors were to develop superior or comparable technologies. Our induction pipe bending technology and capabilities favorably influence our ability to compete successfully. Currently this technology and our proprietary software are not patented. Even though we have some legal protections against the dissemination of this know-how, including non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, our efforts to prevent others from using our technology could be time-consuming, expensive, and ultimately may be unsuccessful or only partially successful. Finally, there is nothing to prevent our competitors from independently attempting to develop or obtain access to technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We devote significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls, if ever required, may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers, and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. We cannot be certain that these measures, if ever required, would ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting processes and related Section 404 reporting requirements if changes are made. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in future periods. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Terrorists’ actions have and could continue to negatively impact the U.S. economy and the markets in which we operate. Terrorist attacks like those that occurred on September 11, 2001, have contributed to economic instability in the U.S., and further acts of terrorism, violence, or war could affect the markets in which we operate, our business, and our expectations. There can be no assurance that armed hostilities will not increase or that terrorist attacks, or responses from the U.S., will not lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the U.S. or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability in the U.S. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could impact our domestic or international revenues, our supply chain, our production capability and our ability to deliver our products and services to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world may also result and could negatively impact our business. Other risks may negatively affect our business. • Our ability to obtain surety bonds or other means of credit support for our projects; • Our ability to collateralize letters of credit or surety bonds upon non-compliance with covenants in our Credit Facility or indemnity agreements; • General economic conditions; • Future changes in accounting standards or interpretations; • Provisions in articles of incorporation and by-laws and rights agreement could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock; • Market prices of our equity securities have changed significantly and could change further; • Recent changes in accounting for equity-related compensation could impact our financial statements and our ability to attract and retain key employees; • Increases in employee-related costs and expenses, including healthcare and other employee benefits such as unemployment insurance and workers’ compensation; • Unavoidable delays due to weather conditions; • Closing of any U.S. military bases related to our privatization interests; and • Our dependency on technology in our operations and the possible impact of system and information technology interruptions. All or any of these matters could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with more liquidity and could have a negative impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have previously disclosed that we are the subject of an informal inquiry by the SEC relating to our financial statements. The SEC has not advised us as to either the reason for the inquiry or its precise scope. However, the initial requests for information we received appear to primarily relate to the purchase method of accounting for various acquisitions. We have been cooperating with the SEC, including providing documents and responding to requests for voluntary production, as well as conducting a detailed review of our accounting for our acquisitions. Subsequent to an internal review which led to the restatement of our financial statements for the second quarter of 2006, as reflected in a press release we announced on July 10, 2006, with a Current Report on Form 8-K, the SEC also requested information related to the restatement. This included information regarding the clerical error in the computation of the amount of revenue recognized on a construction contract and the misapplication of GAAP in our accounting for a minority interest in a joint venture. 