ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in our stock should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with any investment in our stock. Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general economic market conditions and industry conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur. Accordingly, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Adverse or uncertain economic conditions may materially adversely affect the Company.Global economic concerns such as the recurrence of recession on a regional or global basis have increased uncertainty and unpredictability for our business and added risk to our future outlook. A global economic downturn, a downturn in the U.S. or a more severe downturn in Europe, whether short-term or prolonged, could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and customer and supplier bankruptcies.Financial institutions continue to experience significant market pressure and increasing regulatory scrutiny, most recently in connection with lenders' exposure to the sovereign debt of countries like Greece, Italy and Spain. As a result of the pressure and regulatory scrutiny, lenders may be more likely to further consolidate, cease to do business, or be required to meet increased compulsory capitalization thresholds, any of which could result in a tightening of the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of negative effects on our business, including impaired credit availability and increased financial instability of our customers, suppliers and distributors and other sales channel sources. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. Further, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the Great Britain Pound (“GBP”). We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposure for the future twelve month period. We can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective in minimizing our exposure. If the Euro and GBP fall against the USD, our revenues, gross profit and profitability in the future could be negatively affected. See also our risk titled “We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.”Our operating results are difficult to predict, and fluctuations may cause volatility in the trading price of our common stock.Given the nature of the markets in which we compete, our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict for many reasons, including the following: • Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis, and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers, making forecasting difficult. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. • We incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components and enter into development, incur sales and marketing expenditures, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. In the event our inventories for one or more products exceed demand, the risk of future inventory write-downs increases. Conversely, in the event we have inadequate inventory to timely meet the demand for particular products, we may miss significant revenue opportunities or incur significant expenses such as air freight, costs for expediting shipments, and other negative variances in our manufacturing processes as we attempt to make up for the shortfall. When a significant portion of our revenue is derived from new products, forecasting appropriate volumes of production is even more difficult.Fluctuations in our operating results, including the failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of financial analysts, may cause volatility, including material decreases, in the trading price of our common stock.12Table of ContentsThe success of our business depends heavily on our ability to effectively market our UC products, and our business could be materially adversely affected if markets do not develop as we expect.We compete in the business market for the sale of our office and contact center products. We believe that our greatest long-term opportunity for profit growth is in the UC office market, and our foremost strategic objective for this segment is to increase headset adoption. UC is the integration of voice and video-based communications systems enhanced with software applications and Internet Protocol (“IP”) networks. It may include the integration or consolidation of devices and media associated with a variety of business workflows and applications, including e-mail, instant messaging, presence, audio, video and web conferencing, and unified messaging. UC seeks to provide seamless connectivity and user experience for enterprise workers regardless of their location and environment, improving overall business efficiency and providing more effective collaboration among an increasingly distributed workforce. We continue to invest in the development of new products and to enhance existing products to be more appealing in functionality and design for the UC market. We also target certain vertical segments to increase sales. We continue to believe that the implementation of UC technologies by large corporations will be a significant long-term driver of enterprise headset adoption, and, as a result, a key long-term driver of revenue and product growth. However, we can give no assurance that significant growth in UC will occur or that we will be able to take advantage of any growth that does occur. Our ability to realize our UC plans and to achieve the financial results projected to arise from UC adoption could be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • The risk that, as UC becomes more widely adopted, competitors will offer solutions that will effectively commoditize our headsets which, in turn, will reduce the sales prices for our headsets. • Our plans are dependent upon the market success of major platform providers such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Alcatel-Lucent, and IBM, and we have limited ability to influence such providers with respect to the functionality of their platforms, their rate of deployment, and their willingness to integrate their platforms with our solutions. • The development of UC solutions is technically complex and this may delay or obstruct our ability to introduce solutions that are cost effective, feature-rich, stable and attractive to our customers on a timely basis. • Our development of UC solutions is dependent on our ability to implement and execute new and different processes in connection with the design, development and manufacturing of complex electronic systems comprised of hardware, firmware and software that must work in a wide variety of environments and multiple variations, which may in some instances increase the risk of development delays or errors and require the hiring of new personnel and/or third party contractors. • Because UC offerings involve complex integration of hardware and software with UC infrastructure, our sales model and expertise will need to continue to evolve. If we fail to anticipate or effectively implement changes in our sales model or channel our selling techniques and efforts at the primary UC decision makers within enterprises, our ability to maintain and grow our share of the UC market may be adversely impacted. • As UC becomes more widely adopted we anticipate that competition for market share will increase, and some competitors may have superior technical and economic resources. • UC solutions may not be adopted with the breadth and speed in the marketplace that we currently anticipate. • UC may evolve rapidly and unpredictably and our ability to adapt to those changes and future requirements may impact our profitability in this market and our overall margins. Because the major providers of UC software utilize complex and proprietary platforms in which our UC products will be integrated, it will be necessary for us to expand our technical support capabilities. This expansion will result in additional expenses to hire and train the personnel and develop the infrastructure necessary to adequately serve our UC customers. Our support expenditures may substantially increase over time as these platforms evolve and as UC becomes more commonly adopted.If these investments do not generate incremental revenue, our business could be materially adversely affected. 13Table of ContentsThe failure of our suppliers to provide quality components or services in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations.Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our ability to timely obtain raw materials, components, sub-assemblies, and products from our suppliers. We buy raw materials, components and sub-assemblies from a variety of suppliers and assemble them into finished products. We also have certain of our components and products manufactured for us by third party suppliers. The cost, quality, and availability of such goods are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Obtaining raw materials, components, sub-assemblies, and finished products entails various risks, including the following: • Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand for our products could result in higher costs for components and sub-assemblies, increased expenditures for freight to expedite delivery of required materials, and higher overtime costs and other expenses. These higher expenditures could reduce our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, there may be decreased manufacturing yields, which may also reduce our margins. • We obtain certain raw materials, sub-assemblies, components and products from single suppliers, including a majority of our Bluetooth products from GoerTek, Inc. Alternate sources for these items may not be readily available or at acceptable prices. Any failure of GoerTek or our other suppliers to remain in business, provide us with the quantity of components or products that we need or purchase the raw materials, subcomponents and parts required to produce and provide to us the components or products we need could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Although we generally use standard raw materials, parts and components for our products, the high development costs associated with existing and emerging wireless and other technologies may require us to work with a single source of silicon chips, chip-sets or other components or materials (“components or materials”) on any particular product. We, or any of our suppliers of components or materials, may experience challenges in designing, developing and manufacturing components or materials using these new technologies which could affect our ability to meet market schedules. Our components or materials suppliers may decide for commercial reasons to discontinue components or materials that we have designed into our products or may cease doing business completely due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise. Due to our dependence on single suppliers for certain components or materials, we could experience higher prices, a delay in development of the components or materials, be forced to redesign or end of life products, make large last-time buys which are held in inventory for extended periods of time or be unable to meet customer demand for these products. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of these factors. • Because of the lead times required to obtain certain raw materials, sub-assemblies, components and products from certain suppliers, we may not be able to react quickly to changes in demand, potentially resulting in either excess inventories of such goods or materials, sub-assemblies, components and product shortages. Lead times are particularly long on silicon-based components incorporating radio frequency and digital signal processing technologies and such components make up an increasingly larger portion of our product costs. In particular, many consumer product orders have shorter lead times than the component lead times, making it increasingly necessary to carry more inventory in anticipation of those orders, which may not materialize. Failure to synchronize the timing of purchases of raw materials, sub-assemblies, components and products to meet demand could increase our inventories and/or decrease our revenues and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. • We buy most of our raw materials, components and subassemblies on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term commitments from our suppliers as to price or supply. Prices for many commodities are rising and are increasing our costs. Additionally, if our suppliers experience increased demand or shortages, it could affect the timeliness of deliveries to us. Any such shortages or further increases in prices could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has proposed disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of a limited number of raw material parts contained in our products. For example, the implementation of these disclosure requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals, thereby negatively affecting our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to conclusively verify the origins for all metals used in our products. 14Table of ContentsIf we do not match production to demand, we may lose business or our gross margins could be materially adversely affected.Our industry is characterized by technological changes, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments and changes in demand. We determine production levels based on our forecasts of demand for our products. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. In view of the uncertainties inherent in the recovery from the global recession, including the pace and scale of the recovery, it is particularly difficult to make accurate forecasts in this business environment. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in product supply or demand could cause operating problems. For example, if forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventory and capacity. We have experienced differences between our actual and our forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. Some of our products utilize long-lead time parts which are available from a limited set of vendors. The combined effects of variability of demand among our customer base with significant long-lead time of single sourced materials has in the past contributed to significant inventory write-downs, particularly in inventory for consumer products. For OCC products, long life-cycles periodically necessitate last-time buys of raw materials that may be used over the course of several years. We routinely review inventory for usage potential, including fulfillment of customer warranty obligations and spare part requirements, and we write down to market value the excess and obsolete inventory, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, capabilities, or technologies that may replace or shorten the life cycles of our products or cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available. Additionally, the announcement of new products may incite customers to increase purchases of successful legacy products as part of a last time buy strategy; thereby increasing sales in the short-term while decreasing future sales by delaying consumer adoption of new products. These inherent risks transitioning to new products increase the difficulty of accurately forecasting demand for discontinued products as well as demand and acceptance for new products. Accordingly, we must effectively manage inventory levels to have an adequate supply of the new product and avoid retention of excess legacy product; however, we must also concurrently maintain sufficient levels of older product inventory to support continued sales during the transition. Our failure to effectively manage transitions from old products to new could result in inventory obsolescence, and/or loss of revenue and associated gross profit, which may further result in one or more material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.Over-forecast of demand could result in higher inventories of finished products, components, and sub-assemblies. In addition, because our retail customers have pronounced seasonality, we must build inventory well in advance of the December quarter in order to stock up for the anticipated future demand. If we are unable to sell these inventories, we would have to write off some or all of our inventories of excess products and unusable components and sub-assemblies. Conversely, if we are unable to deliver products on time to meet the market window of our retail customers, we will lose opportunities to increase revenues and profits, we may incur penalties for late delivery and we may be unable to later sell the excess inventory. Any of the foregoing problems could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We have strong competitors and expect to face additional competition in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected.All of our markets are intensely competitive. We could face pressure on our average selling prices, competition on sales terms and conditions, or competition with respect to performance, technical and feature enhancements from our competitors. Also, aggressive industry pricing practices may result in downward pressure on margins.Currently, our single largest competitor is GN Store Nord A/S (“GN”), a Danish telecommunications conglomerate with whom we experience price competition in the business markets. Motorola is a significant competitor in the consumer headset market, primarily in the mobile Bluetooth market, and has a brand name that is very well known and supported with significant marketing investments. Motorola also benefits from the ability to bundle other offerings with its headsets. We are also experiencing competition from other consumer electronics companies that currently manufacture and sell mobile phones or computer peripheral equipment. These competitors generally are larger, offer broader product lines, bundle or integrate with other products' communications headset tops and bases manufactured by them or others, offer products containing bases that are incompatible with our headset tops and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources.15Table of ContentsCompetitors in audio devices vary by product line. The most competitive product line is headsets for cell phones where we compete with Motorola, Nokia, Aliph's Jawbone brand, BlueAnt Wireless, Samsung, GN's Jabra brand, Bose and Sony Ericsson among many others. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us, and each of them has established market positions in this business. In the UC and office and contact center markets, the largest competitors are GN, Logitech and Sennheiser Communications. For the entertainment and computer audio market, our primary competitors are Logitech and Sennheiser. Our product markets are intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing. We are facing additional competition from companies, principally located in the Asia Pacific region, which offer very low cost headset products including products that are modeled on or are direct copies of our products. These new competitors are offering very low cost products which result in pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by new entrants into the headset market, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.If we do not distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our products may become commoditized and our business could be harmed. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our revenues and gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our earnings could decline.We also compete in the consumer market for the sale of our mobile, gaming and computer audio, and Clarity products. The consumer market is characterized by relatively rapid product obsolescence, and we are at risk if we do not have the right products available at the right time to meet consumer needs. In addition, some of our competitors have significant brand recognition, and we are experiencing more price-based competition which can result in significant losses and excess inventory.If we are unable to stimulate growth in our business or if our costs to stimulate demand do not generate incremental profit, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. In addition, failure to effectively market our products to customers could lead to lower and more volatile revenue and earnings, excess inventory and the inability to recover the associated development costs, any of which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Prices of certain raw materials, components, semiconductors and sub-assemblies may rise depending upon global market conditions. We have experienced volatility in costs from our suppliers, particularly in light of the price fluctuations of oil, gold, copper and other commodities, semiconductors and other components and products in the U.S. and around the world. We may continue to experience volatility, which could negatively affect our profitability or market share. If we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers or to achieve operating efficiencies that offset these increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.We depend on original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers who may not have adequate capacity to fulfill our needs or may not meet our quality and delivery objectives which could have an adverse effect on our business.Original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers produce key portions of our product lines for us, including, for example, GoerTek, Inc. which manufacturers the majority of our Bluetooth products. Our reliance on these original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and logistics management, the potential lack of adequate capacity and timely deliveries and unanticipated or inconveniently timed loss of services. Financial instability of our manufacturers or contractors resulting from the global recession or otherwise could result in our having to find new suppliers which could increase our costs and delay our product deliveries. These manufacturers and contractors may also choose to discontinue manufacturing our products for a variety of reasons. Consequently, if one or more original design manufacturers or contract manufacturers is unable or unwilling to meet our demand, delivery or price requirements, our business and operating results in all or a portion of our product lines could be severely and materially affected in the event it is difficult, costly or time-consuming to identify and ramp-up alternative manufacturers.16Table of ContentsOur consumer business is volatile and failure to compete successfully in this business may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Our consumer business, which consists primarily of Bluetooth headsets and computer and gaming headsets, is highly competitive and presents many significant manufacturing, marketing and operational risks and uncertainties. The risks include the following: • the market for mono Bluetooth headsets appears to be shrinking as evidenced by continuing declines in retail sales in the U.S., at least partially attributable to increasing integration of Bluetooth systems into automobiles; • reductions in the number of key suppliers participating in the Bluetooth market, thereby reducing our sourcing options and potentially increasing our costs at a time when our ability to offset higher costs with corresponding product price increases is limited; • difficulties retaining or obtaining shelf space for consumer products in our sales channel, particularly with large retailers as the market for mono Bluetooth headsets continues to contract; • the varying pace and scale of global economic recovery creates uncertainty and unpredictability about the demand for consumer products; • our ability to forecast trends and thereafter timely meet the market windows for consumer products, particularly as it relates to our dependence on third parties to supply key components, many of which have longer lead times than commitments from some of our customers; • difficulties achieving or maintaining sufficient gross margin and uncertainties in the forecasting of demand for the variety of Bluetooth headsets, computer and gaming headsets and new products generally within this category for which relevant data is incomplete or unavailable; • our focus on UC products may weaken our competitive position; and • competition may increase more than we expect and result in product pricing pressures.Our business will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to develop, manufacture, and market new products in response to changing customer requirements and new technologies.The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, short product life cycles and frequent new product introductions. As a result, we must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.The technology used in our products is evolving more rapidly now than it has historically, and we anticipate that this trend will continue. Historically, the technology used in lightweight communications headsets evolved slowly. New products primarily offered stylistic changes and quality improvements rather than significant new technologies. Our increasing reliance and focus on the UC market has resulted in a growing portion of our products that integrate significant new technology. In addition, our increasing participation in the consumer market requires us to rapidly and frequently adopt new technology and, thus, our consumer products experience shorter lifecycles. We believe this is particularly true for our newer emerging technology products in the mobile, computer, residential and certain parts of the office markets. In particular, we anticipate a trend towards more integrated solutions that combine audio, video, and software functionality, while historically our focus was limited to audio products.Office phones have begun to incorporate Bluetooth functionality which has opened the market to consumer Bluetooth headsets and reduced the demand for our traditional office telephony headsets and adapters as well as impacting potential revenues from our own wireless headset systems, resulting in lost revenue, lower margins, or both. Should sales and margins on our traditional cordless products decline and we are unable to successfully design, develop and market alternatives at historically comparable margins, our revenue and profits may decrease.In addition, innovative technologies such as UC have moved the platform for certain of our products from our customers' closed proprietary systems to open platforms such as the PC. In turn, the PC has become more open as a result of technologies such as cloud computing and trends toward more open source software code development. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that current and potential competitors could enter our markets and commoditize our products by offering similar products.17Table of ContentsThe success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to: • anticipate technology and market trends; • develop innovative new products and enhancements on a timely basis; • distinguish our products from those of our competitors; • create industrial designs that appeal to our customers and end-users; • manufacture and deliver high-quality products in sufficient volumes and acceptable margins; and • price our products competitively.If we are unable to develop, manufacture, market and introduce enhanced or new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, including changing fashion trends and styles, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as we develop new generations of products more quickly, we expect that the pace of product obsolescence will increase concurrently. The disposition of inventories of excess or obsolete products may result in reductions to our operating margins and materially adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.We have significant foreign manufacturing operations and rely on third party manufacturers located outside the United States, and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, which subjects our business to risks of international operations.We have a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico. We also have suppliers and other vendors throughout Asia, including GoerTek, Inc. located in Weifang, China, which is the manufacturer of the majority of our Bluetooth products. We also generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers. The types of risks faced in connection with international operations and sales include, among others: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • cultural differences in the conduct of business; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • the impact of recessionary, volatile or adverse global economic conditions; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political conditions, health epidemics, civil unrest or criminal activities within each country; • the management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • the burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • currency restrictions; and • compliance with anti-bribery laws, including, without limitation, compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act.The above-listed and other inherent risks of international operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in USD, whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the GBP. Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currency rates impact our global pricing strategy resulting in our lowering or raising selling prices in one or more currencies in order to avoid disparity with USD prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions. We also have significant manufacturing operations in Mexico and fluctuations in the Mexican Peso exchange rate can impact our gross profit and profitability. Additionally, a large majority of our suppliers are located internationally, principally in Asia. Accordingly, volatile or sustained increases or decreases in exchange rates of Asian currencies may result in increased costs or reductions in the number of qualified suppliers. Currency exchange rates are volatile, and while we hedge our major exposures, changes in exchange rates in the future may still have a negative impact on our financial results. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. 18Table of ContentsWe hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposures for the future 12 month period. In addition, we hedge a portion of our Mexican Peso forecasted cost of revenues. Although we have employed these hedging techniques to minimize these risks, we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If the Euro and GBP fall against the USD, our revenues, gross profit and profitability in the future could be negatively affected. We also have foreign currency forward contracts denominated in Euros, GBP and Australian Dollars which hedge against a portion of our foreign-currency denominated assets and liabilities. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. We sell our products through various channels of distribution that can be volatile, and failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with our channel partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, bankruptcies or financial difficulties of our customers may impact our business. We sell substantially all of our products to end users through distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. Effectively managing these relationships and avoiding channel conflicts can be difficult and time-consuming. Our existing relationships with these parties are not exclusive and can be terminated by us or them without cause. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. These customers also sell or may sell products offered by our competitors. To the extent that our competitors offer these customers more favorable terms or more compelling products, such customers may decline to carry, de-emphasize, or discontinue carrying our products. Further, such customers may not recommend or may stop recommending our products. In the future, our OEMs or potential OEMs may elect to manufacture their own products that are similar to those we currently sell to them. The inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors, OEMs, retailers and telephony service providers or to expand our distribution channels could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have experienced the bankruptcy of certain customers; for example, in fiscal year 2012, the bankruptcy of one of our customers negatively impacted our operating income by $1.2 million. It is not possible to predict whether additional bankruptcies may occur. As a result of the evolution of our consumer business, our customer mix is changing, and certain retailers, OEMs, and wireless carriers are more significant. This reliance on certain large channel partners could increase the volatility of our revenues and earnings. In particular, we have several large customers whose order patterns are difficult to predict. Offers and promotions by these customers may result in significant fluctuations of their purchasing activities over time. If we are unable to anticipate the purchase requirements of these customers, our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be exposed to large volumes of inventory that cannot be resold to other customers. Our corporate tax rate may increase, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.We have significant operations in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world, and a substantial portion of our taxable income has been generated historically in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Currently, some of our operations are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. If our income in these lower tax jurisdictions were no longer to qualify for these lower tax rates, the applicable tax laws were rescinded or changed, or the mix of our earnings shifts from lower rate jurisdictions to higher rate jurisdictions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our profits are currently recognized, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of our common stock to enhance stockholder value and may do so again in the future. Stock repurchases may not result in enhanced stockholder value, may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources and may require us to draw additional funds on our existing credit agreement. On March 8, 2012, we announced the completion of a 7,000,000 share repurchase program initially authorized by our Board of Directors in May 2011. We further announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an additional 1,000,000 share repurchase program. There can be no assurance that our stock repurchase programs will have a beneficial impact on our stock price or if our Board of Directors will authorize additional stock repurchase programs in the future. Additionally, the timing of our stock repurchases varies with fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock such that at any particular time our domestic cash flow from operations has been, and may be again in the future, insufficient to fully cover our stock repurchases and support our working capital needs. In May 2011 we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association which provides for a $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We have previously drawn funds and expect to continue drawing funds under the Credit Agreement from time to time, which amounts bear interest. Moreover, the Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply. These restrictions apply regardless of whether any loans are outstanding and could adversely impact how we operate our business.19Table of ContentsWe are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs.There are multiple initiatives in several jurisdictions regarding the removal of certain potential environmentally sensitive materials from our products to comply with the European Union (“EU”) and other Directives on the Restrictions of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) and on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”). In certain jurisdictions, the RoHS legislation was enacted as of July 1, 2006; however, other jurisdictions have delayed implementation. If unusual occurrences arise or we are wrong in our assessment of what it will take to fully comply with the RoHS and WEEE directives, there is a risk that we will not be able to comply with the legislation as passed by the EU member states or other global jurisdictions. Moreover, if additional new or existing environmental laws or regulations in the U.S., Europe or other jurisdictions are enacted or amended, we may be required to modify some or all of our products or replace one or more components in those products which, if such modifications are possible, may be time-consuming, expensive to implement and decrease end-user demand as result of increased price. If any of the foregoing were to happen, our ability to sell one or more of our products may be limited or prohibited causing a material negative effect on our financial results.We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations on a global basis, including those governing the use, discharge, and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our current manufacturing operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, it is possible that future environmental legislation may be enacted or current environmental legislation may be interpreted in any given country to create environmental liability with respect to our facilities, operations, or products. To the extent that we incur claims for environmental matters exceeding reserves or insurance for environmental liability, our operating results could be negatively impacted.Our intellectual property rights could be infringed on by others, and we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others resulting in claims or lawsuits. Even if we prevail, claims and lawsuits are costly and time consuming to pursue or defend and may divert management's time from our business.Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, and other intellectual property, including our rights to certain domain names. We rely primarily on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and media properties are distributed to customers. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be lengthy and expensive. Patents may not be issued in response to our applications, and any patents that may be issued may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged by others. If we are required to enforce our intellectual property or other proprietary rights through litigation, the costs and diversion of management's attention could be substantial. In addition, the rights granted under any intellectual property may not provide us competitive advantages or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If we do not enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets are owned by individuals or entities that may make claims or commence litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased. There has also been a general trend of increasing intellectual property infringement claims against corporations that make and sell products. Our products and technologies may be subject to certain third-party claims and, regardless of the merits of the claim, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate, settle, or otherwise resolve. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue the manufacture and distribution of products that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We also may have to obtain, or renew on less favorable terms, licenses to manufacture and distribute our products, which may significantly increase our operating expenses. In addition, many of our agreements with our distributors and resellers require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Discharging our indemnity obligations may involve time-consuming and expensive litigation and result in substantial settlements or damages awards, our products being enjoined, and the loss of a distribution channel or retail partner, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results.20Table of ContentsOur products are subject to various regulatory requirements, and changes in such regulatory requirements may adversely impact our gross margins as we comply with such changes or reduce our ability to generate revenues if we are unable to comply.Our products must meet the requirements set by regulatory authorities in the numerous jurisdictions in which we sell them. For example, certain of our office and contact center products must meet certain standards to work with local phone systems. Certain of our wireless office and mobile products must work within existing frequency ranges permitted in various jurisdictions. As regulations and local laws change, we must modify our products to address those changes. Regulatory restrictions may increase the costs to design, manufacture, and sell our products, resulting in a decrease in our margins or a decrease in demand for our products if the costs are passed along. Compliance with regulatory restrictions may impact the technical quality and capabilities of our products reducing their marketability. If we do not comply with these regulations, our products might interfere with other devices that properly use the frequency ranges in which our products operate, and we may be responsible for the damages that our products cause. This could result in our having to alter the performance of our products and make payment of substantial monetary damages or penalties.We are exposed to potential lawsuits alleging defects in our products and/or other claims related to the use of our products.The sales of our products expose us to the risk of product liability, including hearing loss claims. These claims have in the past been, and are currently being, asserted against us. None of the previously resolved claims have materially affected our business, financial condition, or results of operations, nor do we believe that any of the pending claims will have such an effect. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage provided under our policies could be unavailable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any one or more claims. Therefore, successful product liability or hearing loss claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations.For example, our mobile headsets are used with mobile telephones and there has been continuing public controversy over whether the radio frequency emissions from mobile phones are harmful to users of mobile phones. We are unaware of any conclusive proof of any health hazard from the use of mobile phones but research in this area continues. Although we have tested our headsets through independent laboratories and have found that use of our corded headsets reduces radio frequency emissions at the user's head to virtually zero and our Bluetooth and other wireless headsets emit significantly less powerful radio frequency emissions than mobile phones; if research establishes a health hazard from the use of mobile phones or public controversy grows even in the absence of conclusive research findings, the likelihood of litigation against us may increase. Likewise, should research establish a link between radio frequency emissions and corded or wireless headsets or should we become a party to litigation claiming such a link and public concern in this area grows, demand for our corded or wireless headsets could be reduced creating a material adverse effect on our financial results.There is also continuing and increasing public controversy over the use of mobile phones by operators of motor vehicles. While we believe that our products enhance driver safety by permitting a motor vehicle operator to generally keep both hands free to operate the vehicle, there is no certainty that this is the case, and we may be subject to claims arising from allegations that use of a mobile phone and headset contributed to a motor vehicle accident. We maintain product liability insurance and general liability insurance that we believe would cover any such claims; however, the coverage provided under our policies could be unavailable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any one or more claims. Therefore, successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21Table of ContentsOur stock price may be volatile and the value of an investment in Plantronics stock could be diminished.The market price for our common stock has been affected and may continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: • uncertain economic conditions, including the length and scope of the recovery from the domestic and global recession or double dip recession in the U.S. or Europe, slowing economic growth in Asia, inflationary pressures, and a potential decline in investor confidence in the market place; • failure to meet our forecasts or the expectations and forecasts of securities analysts; • changes in our published forecasts of future results of operations; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations and changes in market share; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product enhancements and manage product transitions; • repurchases of our common shares under our repurchase plans; • our decision to declare dividends or increase or decrease dividends over historical rates; • the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; • sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market; • general economic, political, and market conditions, including market volatility; and • other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.Our business could be materially adversely affected if we lose the benefit of the services of key personnel.Our success depends to a large extent upon the services of a limited number of executive officers and other key employees. The unanticipated loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.We have $14.4 million of goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. If the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss may be recognized, which would adversely affect our financial results.As a result of past acquisitions, we have $14.4 million of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012. It is not possible at this time to determine if any future impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such charge would be material related to these remaining assets. If such a charge is necessary, it may have a material adverse effect our financial results.If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation may be damaged, and we may be financially liable for damages.We rely on networks, information systems and other technology (“information systems”), including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business activities, including procurement, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collections. We use information systems to process and report financial information internally and to comply with regulatory reporting. In addition, we depend on information systems for communications with our suppliers, distributors, and customers. Consequently, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns or service disruptions during routine operations such as system upgrades or user errors, as well as network or hardware failures, malicious software, hackers, natural disasters, communications interruptions, or other events. Such events could result in unintended disclosure of sensitive information or assets. Furthermore, we may experience targeted attacks and although we continue to invest in personnel, technologies and training to prepare for and reduce the adverse consequences of such attacks these investments are expensive and do not guarantee that such attacks will be unsuccessful.If our information systems are disrupted or shutdown and we fail to timely and effectively resolve the issues, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits. Misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation, and have a negative impact on net operating revenues. In addition, we may suffer financial damage and damage to our reputation because of loss or misappropriation of our confidential information or assets or those of our partners, customers or suppliers. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy security breaches or to repair or replace networks and information systems.22Table of ContentsWar, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which could negatively affect our operations and performance.War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused or could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, us, and our suppliers or customers. Our major business operations and those of many of our vendors and their sub-suppliers (collectively, "Suppliers") are subject to interruption by disasters including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods and volcanic eruptions or other natural or manmade disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, public health issues, flu or similar epidemics or pandemics, and other events beyond our control and the control of our Suppliers. Our corporate headquarters, information technology, manufacturing, certain research and development activities, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults or flood zones. While we are partially insured for earthquake-related losses or floods, our operating results and financial condition could be materially affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or manmade disaster.Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any of the events described above, such events could significantly disrupt our operations or the operations of our Suppliers. In addition, should any of the events above arise we could be negatively impacted by the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions, delays in production, and disruptions in the operations of our Suppliers. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by these events.We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements.We have and will continue to consume management resources and incur significant expenses for Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments and causing investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in a decline in the market price of our stock.We may still be subject to certain liabilities from our discontinued Audio Entertainment Group ("AEG") business segment.Under the terms of an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated October 2, 2009, by and among us, certain of our subsidiaries and Audio Technologies Acquisition, LLC (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"), a First Amendment to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated November 30, 2009, a Side Letter to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated January 8, 2010, and a second Side Letter to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated February 15, 2010 (collectively, the “Purchase Agreement”), we retained certain assets and liabilities of Altec Lansing as of the closing date, December 1, 2009 and may be required to indemnify the purchaser ("Purchaser") for certain losses they may incur. If the Purchaser incurs certain losses, the Purchaser may make an indemnification claim and we may be required to pay certain expenses or reimburse Purchaser for losses they incur, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our ability to defend ourselves may be impaired because most of our former AEG employees are employees of the Purchaser and our management may have to devote a substantial amount of time to resolving the claim, and, as we are no longer in the AEG business, we may not be able to readily offer products, service and intellectual property in settlement. In addition, these indemnity claims may divert management attention from our continued business. It may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party stemmed from actions taken by us or the Purchaser and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine which party has responsibility for the claim.23Table of ContentsProvisions in our charter documents and Delaware law or a decision by our Board of Directors to adopt a stockholder rights plan in the future may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could decrease the value of our stock.Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could also have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition by a third party. Further, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Additionally, the stockholders rights plan adopted by our Board of Directors in 2002 ("Rights Plan") recently expired. Were our Board of Directors to approve the renewal of the Rights Plan or adopt a new or similar plan, the ability of one or more third parties to acquire us or a significant percentage of our capital stock would be more difficult and require any third parties to first negotiate with our Board of Directors, thereby potentially decreasing the value placed on our stock.24Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 