ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with any investment in our stock. Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general economic market and industry conditions. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur. Accordingly, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Adverse or uncertain economic conditions may materially adversely affect us.Our operations and financial performance are dependent on the global economy. Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions makes it challenging to forecast operating results, make business decisions, and identify risks that may affect our business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition, and results of operations. Economic concerns, such as uncertain or inconsistent global or regional economic growth, stagnation or contraction, including the moderate pace of economic growth in the United States, continuing pressure on economic growth in Europe, and uncertain growth prospects in the Asia Pacific region, as well as anxiety regarding geopolitical conflicts, increase the uncertainty and unpredictability for our business as consumers and businesses postpone or forego spending. A global economic downturn or continued erratic or declining business or governmental spending or hiring may reduce sales of our products, increase sales cycles, slow adoption of new technologies, increase price competition, and cause customers and suppliers to default on their financial obligations.Replacement cycles of our Office and Contact Center ("OCC") products, in particular, are adversely impacted by lower voluntary employee turnover as new headset demand is typically created when employees change employers or transition to new positions. In many regions in the world, slow and inconsistent domestic and international business hiring has perpetuated employee reluctance to change jobs, limits opportunities for unemployed workers to reenter the workforce and, consequently, impedes sales of our headsets. U.S. federal government spending cuts under the Budget Control Act of 2011, known as sequestration, went into effect in March 2013, and while the impact of the reductions on our business have not been material to date, the long-term future impact remains unclear. Likewise, austerity measures previously implemented by various European governments have curtailed, and may further reduce, demand for our products by affected governmental agencies and by our customers who derive all or a portion of their revenues from these agencies. Similarly, to the extent uncertainty regarding public debt limits or budget negotiations, particularly in the U.S and Europe, hinder spending by retail consumers, businesses or governmental agencies, sales of our products may decrease or be delayed. We cannot predict the impact of governmental spending reductions or budget or debt impasses on us or our customers or whether and to what extent our business and results of operations may be adversely harmed.Further, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the British Pound Sterling (“GBP”). See our risk titled, “We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.” 10Table of ContentsOur operating results are difficult to predict, and fluctuations may cause volatility in the trading price of our common stock.Given the nature of the markets in which we compete, our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict for many reasons, including the following:•Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis, without firm, long-term purchase commitments, making forecasting difficult. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter, which fluctuate for many reasons beyond our control, including customers' sales promotions and campaigns, large customer deployments of Unified Communications ("UC") infrastructure, general economic conditions, seasonality, customer cancellations, and rescheduling.•Our gross margins vary for many reasons, including customer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. Moreover, there are significant variances in gross profit percentages between our higher and lower margin products such that small variations in product sales mix, which are difficult to predict, can materially impact gross profit. Additionally, if we fail to timely introduce new products within projected costs, product demand is less than anticipated or product pricing, marketing or other initiatives that we initiate lower our margins, our overall gross margin will decrease. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected and create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results.•We incur significant costs in advance of customer orders including research and development costs, cost of materials and components, manufacturing costs, and sales, marketing and other operating commitments prior to obtaining orders. If inventories for one or more products exceed demand, the risk of inventory write-downs increases. Conversely, if we have inadequate inventory to timely meet demand for particular products, we may miss significant revenue opportunities or incur significant expenses such as expedited shipping charges and other costs as we attempt to make up for the shortfall. When a significant portion of our revenue is derived from new products, forecasting future demand is even more difficult.•We are increasingly incorporating software features and functionalities into our products, offering firmware and software fixes, updates, and upgrades electronically over the Internet and developing standalone software applications. As the nature and extent of software integration in our products increases or if sales of standalone software applications become material, the way we report revenue related to our products could be significantly affected. For example, we are increasingly required to evaluate whether our revenue transactions include multiple deliverables and, as such, whether the revenue generated by each transaction should be recognized upon delivery, over a period of time or apportioned and recognized based on a combination of the two in light of all the facts and circumstances related to each transaction. Moreover, the software revenue recognition rules are complex and dynamic. If we fail to accurately apply these complex rules and policies, we may incorrectly report revenues in one or more quarterly or annual periods. If this were to occur and the error was material, we may be required to restate our financial statements, which could materially and adversely impact our results for the affected periods, cause our stock price to decline, and result in securities class actions or other similar litigation.Fluctuations in our operating results, including the failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of financial analysts, may cause volatility, including material decreases, in the trading price of our common stock. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to effectively market our UC products, and our business could be materially adversely affected if markets do not develop as we expect.Our OCC products represent our largest source of revenue, and we regard the market for headsets designed for UC as our greatest long-term opportunity in the OCC market. We believe that the implementation of UC technologies by large enterprises will be a significant long-term driver of enterprise UC headset adoption, and, as a result, a key long-term driver of revenue and profit growth. Accordingly, we continue to invest in the development of new products and enhance existing products to be more appealing in functionality and design for the UC office market; however, there is no guarantee that significant growth in UC will occur or that we will successfully take advantage of any growth that does occur. 11Table of ContentsOur ability to realize and achieve the financial results projected from UC adoption could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the following: •As UC becomes more widely adopted, the risk that competitors will offer solutions that will effectively commoditize our headsets increases, which, in turn, may reduce the sales prices for our headsets.•The market success of major platform providers and strategic partners such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Alcatel-Lucent, and IBM, and our influence over such providers with respect to the functionality of their platforms and product offerings, their rate of deployment, and their willingness to integrate their platforms and product offerings with our solutions, is limited.•Delays or limitations on our ability to timely introduce solutions that are cost effective, feature-rich, stable, and attractive to our customers.•Failure to implement and execute new and different processes involving the design, development, and manufacturing of complex electronic systems composed of hardware, firmware, and software that works in a wide variety of environments and with multiple devices and associated development delays or errors in addition to development costs.•Failure of our sales model and expertise to continue to evolve to support complex integration of hardware and software with UC infrastructure. If we fail to anticipate or effectively implement changes in our sales model or channel our selling techniques and efforts at the primary UC decision makers within enterprises, our ability to maintain and grow our share of the UC market may be adversely impacted.•Increased competition for market share, and some competitors may have superior technical and economic resources enabling them to take greater advantage of the UC market opportunities.•Failure of UC solutions to be adopted with the breadth and speed that we currently anticipate.•Sales cycles for more complex UC deployments may substantially increase over our traditional OCC products.•Our inability to timely and cost-effectively adapt to changes and future requirements of UC may impact our profitability in this market and our overall margins.•Failure to further expand our technical support capabilities to support the complex and proprietary platforms in which our UC products are and will be integrated and increases in our support expenditures over time.If our investments in, and strategic focus on, UC does not generate incremental revenue, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to accurately match production to demand, or our suppliers fail to timely provide quality components or services, our business, reputation and results of operations may be materially adversely harmed.Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments, and changes in demand. Production levels are forecasted based on anticipated and historic product demand. Actual demand depends on many factors and may vary significantly from our forecasts. We will lose opportunities to increase revenues and profits and may incur late delivery penalties if we underestimate the demands of our customers. Conversely, overestimating demand could result in higher inventories of raw materials, components, and sub-assemblies ("materials and components") and finished products, which may later require us to write off all or a material portion of our inventories. We routinely review inventory for usage potential, including fulfillment of customer warranty obligations and spare part requirements, and we write down to the lower of cost or market value the excess and obsolete inventory, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12Table of ContentsOur growth and ability to meet customer demand also depends in part on our ability to timely obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components, and finished products of acceptable quality at acceptable prices. We buy materials and components from a variety of suppliers and assemble them into finished products. In addition, certain of our products and key portions of our products lines are manufactured for us by third party original design and contract manufacturers ("ODMs"). The cost, quality, and availability of the services, components, and materials these ODMs and third parties supply are essential to our success and our reliance on these ODMs and third parties involves significant risks, including the following:•We obtain certain materials and components and finished products from specific suppliers and ODMs, including a majority of our Bluetooth products, from GoerTek, Inc. These suppliers deliver materials or acquire components and ODMs build products based on demand information we periodically provide, typically covering periods of up to 13 weeks. Consistent with industry practice, we acquire materials and components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders. Because our markets are competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there exists a risk that we will forecast inaccurately and order or produce excess or insufficient quantities of materials and components, or that we may not fully utilize materials and components subject to firm purchase commitments, resulting in adverse purchase commitment charges.•Suppliers and ODMs may choose to discontinue supplying materials and components or finished products for a variety of reasons, which may (i) be difficult, time-consuming, or costly to replace, (ii) force us to redesign or end-of-life certain products, (iii) delay manufacturing or render us unable to meet customer demand, or (iv) require us to make large last-time buys in excess of our short-term needs, for which materials and components are held in inventory for extended periods of time. Consequently, if one or more suppliers or ODMs is unable or unwilling to meet our demand, delivery, or price requirements, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.•Although we prefer to use standard materials and components in our products, the high development costs associated with existing and emerging wireless and other technologies may require us to work with a single source for silicon chips, chip-sets, or other materials and components in a particular product or because viable alternate sources for these items may not be readily available. Moreover, lead times are particularly long for silicon-based components incorporating radio frequency and digital signal processing technologies and such materials and components make up an increasingly larger portion of our product costs. In particular, many consumer product orders have shorter lead times than component lead times, making it increasingly necessary to carry more inventory in anticipation of orders, which may not materialize. •A substantial portion of the materials and components used in our products are provided by our suppliers on consignment. As such, we do not take title to the materials and components until they are consumed in the production process. Prior to consumption, title and risk of loss remains solely with the suppliers. The terms of the agreements allow the Company to return parts in excess of maximum order quantities to the suppliers at the supplier’s expense. Returns for other reasons are negotiated with the suppliers on a case-by-case basis and to date have been immaterial. However, if we purchase all or a material portion of the consigned materials and components, we could incur unanticipated expenses, including write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, which, if material, could negatively affect our business and financial results.•As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union. The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional European requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of a number of parts contained in our products. For example, these disclosure requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals, thereby constraining our ability to obtain materials and components in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may be unable to conclusively verify the origins of all metals used in our products. We may suffer financial and reputational harm if customers require, and we are unable to deliver, certification that our products are conflict free. Regardless, we have and will continue to incur costs associated with compliance, including time-consuming and costly efforts to determine the source of minerals used in our products. The first report is due on June 2, 2014 for the 2013 calendar year.•Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand for our products could result in higher costs for materials and components, increased expenditures for freight to expedite delivery of required materials, and higher overtime costs and other expenses, which could reduce our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing yields may decrease, which may also reduce our margins. 13Table of Contents•Periodically, we or our competitors announce new products, capabilities, or technologies that may replace or shorten the life cycles of our products or cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available. Additionally, new product announcements may incite customers to increase purchases of successful legacy products as part of a last-time buy strategy, thereby increasing sales in the short-term while decreasing future sales by delaying adoption of new products. These risks increase the difficulty of accurately forecasting demand for discontinued products and new products. Accordingly, we must effectively manage inventory levels during the transition to ensure an adequate supply of the new product and avoid retention of excess legacy product. Our failure to effectively manage transitions from old to new products could result in inventory obsolescence and loss of revenue and associated gross profit. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Prices of certain raw materials, components, semiconductors, and sub-assemblies may rise depending upon global market conditions which may adversely affect our margins. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience volatility in prices from our suppliers, particularly in light of the price fluctuations of oil, gold, copper, and other materials and components in the U.S. and around the world. We expect to continue experiencing volatility, which could negatively affect our profitability or market share. If we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers or to achieve operating efficiencies that offset these increases, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.We have strong competitors and expect to face additional competition in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected.All of the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive and market leadership has the potential to change as a result of new product introductions and pricing. We face pressure on our selling prices, sales terms and conditions, and in connection with product performance and functionality. Also, aggressive industry pricing practices may result in decreasing margins.Currently, one of our primary competitors is GN Netcom, a subsidiary of GN Store Nord A/S (“GN”), a Danish telecommunications conglomerate with whom we compete in the office, OCC, and consumer markets. We also experience competition from consumer electronics companies that manufacture and sell mobile phones or computer peripheral equipment. Many of our competitors are larger, offer broader product lines, may integrate their products with communications headset devices and adapters manufactured by them or others, offer products that are incompatible with our headsets, and have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources.Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. The most competitive product line is headsets for cell phones where we compete with GN's Jabra brand, Motorola, Samsung, LG, and Bose, among many others. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us, and each of them has established market positions in this business. In the UC and OCC markets, the largest competitors are GN, Sennheiser Communications, and Logitech. For the entertainment and computer audio markets, our primary competitors are Sennheiser, Logitech, Beats, LG, Jaybird, Motorola, and Bose. For the gaming market, our primary competitors are Turtle Beach, Skullcandy, and Razer. We face additional competition from companies, principally located in the Asia Pacific region, which offer very low cost headset products, including products that are modeled on or are direct copies of our products, resulting in market pricing pressure. If market prices are substantially reduced by new entrants into the headset market, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.If we do not distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our products may become commoditized and our business could be harmed. In addition, failure to effectively market our products to customers could lead to lower and more volatile revenue and earnings, excess inventory, and the inability to recover associated development costs, any of which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 14Table of ContentsThe markets for our consumer products are volatile and our ability to compete successfully in one or more of these markets is subject to many risks.The markets for our consumer products, which consist primarily of Bluetooth headsets, gaming, entertainment and computer audio headsets, are highly competitive and present many significant manufacturing, marketing and operational risks and uncertainties. The risks include the following: •The global market for mono Bluetooth headsets is shrinking, which is at least partially attributable to increasing integration of Bluetooth systems into automobiles. The market for stereo Bluetooth headsets is growing rapidly, although it is dominated by lifestyle brands. Our market share has been and is significantly larger in the mono market than in the stereo market and it remains unclear whether we will be able to sufficiently increase share in the stereo market in order to continue growing in the overall market for Bluetooth headsets.•Reductions in the number of suppliers participating in the Bluetooth market reduce our sourcing options and potentially increases our costs at a time when our ability to offset higher costs with corresponding product price increases is limited.•Difficulties retaining or obtaining shelf space and maintaining a robust and compelling eCommerce presence for consumer products in our sales channel, particularly with large "brick and mortar" retailers and Internet "etailers" as the market for mono Bluetooth headsets continues to contract.•The varying pace and scale of economic recovery and growth in many regions of the world creates uncertainty and unpredictability about the demand for consumer products.•The need to rapidly and frequently adopt new technology and changing market trends. In particular, we anticipate a trend towards more integrated solutions that combine audio, video, and software functionality that we expect will shorten product lifecycles.•Our ability to maintain insight into, and quickly respond to, sudden changes in laws or regulations before our competitors.Failure to compete successfully in the consumer business market may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our corporate tax rate may increase or we may incur additional income tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant operations in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world, and a substantial portion of our taxable income has been generated historically in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Currently, some of our operations are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. If our income in these lower tax jurisdictions were no longer to qualify for these lower tax rates, the applicable tax laws were rescinded or changed, or the mix of our earnings shifts from lower rate jurisdictions to higher rate jurisdictions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, various governmental tax authorities have recently increased their scrutiny of tax strategies employed by corporations and individuals. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our profits are currently recognized, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and foreign governments. In July 2012, the IRS commenced an examination of our 2010 tax year. While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in USD, whereas a significant portion of our sales are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the GBP. Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currency rates impact our global pricing strategy, resulting in our lowering or raising selling prices in one or more currencies in order to avoid disparity with USD prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions. Large or frequent fluctuations in foreign currency rates, coupled with the ease of identifying global price differences for our products via the Internet, increases pricing pressure as well as the likelihood of unauthorized third party sales in varying countries taking advantage of prices disparities, thereby undermining our established sales channels and operations. We also have significant manufacturing operations in Mexico and fluctuations in the Mexican Peso exchange rate can impact our gross profit and profitability. 15Table of ContentsAdditionally, the majority of our suppliers are located internationally, principally in Asia. Accordingly, volatile or sustained increases or decreases in exchange rates of Asian currencies may result in increased costs or reductions in the number of suppliers qualified to meet our standards. Although we hedge currency exchange rates exposures we deem material, changes in exchange rates may nonetheless still have a negative impact on our financial results. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposures for the future, typically over 12-month periods. In addition, we hedge a portion of our Mexican Peso forecasted cost of revenues and we have foreign currency forward contracts denominated in Euros, GBP, and Australian Dollars that hedge against a portion of our foreign-currency denominated assets and liabilities. Our foreign currency hedging contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements and we do not execute hedging contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. There is no assurance that our hedging strategies will be effective. Additionally, even if our hedging techniques are successful in the periods during which the rates are hedged, our future revenues, gross profit, and profitability may be negatively affected both at current rates and by adverse fluctuations in currencies against the USD. Our business will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to develop, manufacture, and market new products in response to changing customer requirements and new technologies.The technology used in our products is evolving more rapidly now than in the past and we anticipate that this trend will continue. Historically, new products primarily offered stylistic changes and quality improvements rather than significant new technologies. Our increasing reliance and focus on the UC market has resulted in a growing number of our products that integrate complex, state-of-the-art technology, increasing the risks associated with new product ramp-up, including product performance and defects in the early stages of production. Office phones have begun to incorporate Bluetooth functionality, which has opened the market to consumer Bluetooth headsets and reduced the demand for our traditional office telephony headsets and adapters resulting in lost revenue, lower margins, or both. Moreover, the increasing adoption of wireless headsets has also resulted in increased development costs associated with the introduction of new wireless standards and more frequent changes in those standards and capabilities as compared to wired technologies. If sales and margins on our traditional corded and cordless products decline and we are unable to successfully design, develop, and market alternatives at historically comparable margins, our revenue and profits may decrease.In addition, innovative technologies such as UC have moved the platform for certain of our products from our customers' closed proprietary systems to open platforms such as the PC, smart phones and tablets. In turn, these devices have become more open as a result of technologies such as cloud computing and trends toward more open source software code development. As a result, the risk that current and potential competitors could enter our markets and commoditize our products by offering similar products has increased. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to:•Anticipate technology and market trends•Develop innovative new products and enhancements on a timely basis•Distinguish our products from those of our competitors•Create industrial designs that appeal to our customers and end-users•Manufacture and deliver high-quality products in sufficient volumes and acceptable margins•Price our products competitively•Hire and retain qualified personnel in the highly competitive field of software development•Provide timely, effective and accurate technical product support to our customers•Leverage new and existing channel partners effectivelyIf we are unable to develop, manufacture, market, and introduce enhanced or new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, including changing fashion trends and styles, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16Table of ContentsWe have significant foreign manufacturing operations and rely on third party manufacturers located outside the U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, which subjects our business to risks of international operations.We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico. We also have suppliers, contact manufacturers, and other vendors throughout Asia and generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers. Our international operations and sales expose us to various risks including, among others:•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates•Cultural differences in the conduct of business•Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods•The impact of recessionary, volatile or adverse global economic conditions•Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements•Tariffs and other trade barriers, particularly in developing nations such as Brazil, India, and others•Political conditions, health epidemics, civil unrest, or criminal activities within each country in which we operate•The management, operation, and expenses associated with an enterprise spread over various countries•The burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations •Currency restrictions•Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery ActThe above-listed and other inherent risks of international operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We sell our products through various distribution channels that can be volatile, and failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with our channel partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, bankruptcies or financial difficulties of our customers may impact our business. We sell substantially all of our products through distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers. Effectively managing these relationships and avoiding channel conflicts is challenging. Our existing relationships with these parties are generally not exclusive and can be terminated by us or them without cause on short notice. These customers also sell or may sell products offered by our competitors. To the extent that our competitors offer these customers more favorable terms or more compelling products, they may decline to carry, de-emphasize, or discontinue carrying our products. Further, such customers may not recommend or may stop recommending our products. Moreover, our OEMs may elect to manufacture their own products that are similar to ours. The inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors, OEMs, retailers, and telephony service providers or to expand our distribution channels could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Additionally, our customers suffer from their own financial and economic challenges. If global or regional economic conditions deteriorate, more customers may become insolvent and it is impossible to reliably determine if additional bankruptcies will occur. As a result of the evolution of our consumer business, our customer mix is changing, and certain retailers, OEMs, and wireless carriers are more significant. Our reliance on certain large channel partners could increase the volatility of our revenues and earnings. In particular, we have several large customers whose order patterns are difficult to predict. Offers and promotions by these customers may result in significant fluctuations of their purchasing activities over time. If we are unable to correctly anticipate the quantities and timing of their purchase requirements, our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be left holding large volumes of inventory that cannot be sold to other customers.Also, we have begun implementing an authorization program in which distributors and resellers will be asked to enter into agreements or supplements to existing agreements in connection with the sale all or a portion of our products. Although this program is intended to provide us with greater insight into and control over our distribution channels, our partners may deem the program or the process of implementing the program difficult, time-consuming or disruptive, or the terms of the program or our agreements unacceptable. If any of these or other complications arise, it may adversely impact the number and quality of our distributors and resellers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17Table of ContentsWe have recently re-implemented our enterprise resource planning system and we may experience difficulties operating our business as we work to stabilize the system. Our project to re-implement our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system recently went live and our work to stabilize it continues. Our ERP system is critical to the tasks of gathering and aggregating information needed to manage our business, including accurately maintaining books and records, recording transactions, providing important information to management, preparing our financial statements, and forecasting future operations. The re-implementation of the ERP system carries certain risks, including the risk of significant design or deployment errors causing disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, procure products, materials or resources from our supply chain, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track expenses and payments, fulfill contractual obligations, timely and accurately close our books for financial reporting purposes, or otherwise operate our business. As a result, there is a risk that deficiencies could constitute significant deficiencies, or, in the aggregate, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. If this were to occur, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits, or other adverse actions requiring us to incur litigation costs, pay fines, enter into settlements or become subject to judgments. This may cause investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially result in a decline in the market price of our stock.Our estimates or judgments relating to critical accounting estimates are based on assumptions that can change or prove to be incorrect.Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our financial statements, including those related to:•Revenue recognition and related allowances•Inventory valuation•Product warranty obligations•Income taxesWe base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these and other estimates if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price.Our intellectual property rights could be infringed on by others, and we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others resulting in claims or lawsuits. Even if we prevail, claims and lawsuits are costly and time consuming to pursue or defend and may divert management's time from our business.Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, and other intellectual property, including our rights to certain domain names. We rely primarily on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection and enforcement may not be available in every country in which our products and media properties are distributed to customers. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. For example, patents may not be issued in response to our applications, and any patents that may be issued may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged by others. If we are required to enforce our intellectual property or other proprietary rights through litigation, the costs and diversion of management's attention could be substantial. Furthermore, we may be countersued by an actual or alleged infringer if we attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may materially increase our costs, divert management attention, and result in injunctive or financial damages being awarded against us. In addition, the rights granted under any intellectual property may not provide us competitive advantages or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. If it is not feasible or possible to obtain, enforce, or protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18Table of ContentsPatents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets are owned by individuals or entities that may make claims or commence litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased. There has also been a general trend of increasing intellectual property infringement claims against corporations that make and sell products. Our products and technologies may be subject to certain third-party claims and, regardless of the merits of the claim, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate, settle, or otherwise resolve. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue the manufacture and distribution of products that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We also may have to obtain, or renew on less favorable terms, licenses to manufacture and distribute our products, which may significantly increase our operating expenses. In addition, many of our agreements with our distributors and resellers require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Discharging our indemnity obligations may involve time-consuming and expensive litigation and result in substantial settlements or damages awards, our products being enjoined, and the loss of a distribution channel or retail partner, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results.We cannot guarantee we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to stock repurchase programs or that we will declare future dividend payments at historic rates or at all. The repurchase of our common stock and the payment of dividends may not achieve our objectives or may result in negative side effects.Since May 2011, we have repurchased in excess of 10 million shares of our common stock through multiple share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors. In addition, in February 2014, we announced a new one million share repurchase program following completion of a one million share repurchase program approved in November 2013. Moreover, our Board of Directors has consistently declared quarterly dividends over the years. Any determination to pay cash dividends at recent rates or at all, or authorization or continuance of any share repurchase programs is contingent on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that such dividends or share repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and in compliance with all laws and applicable agreements. Additionally, there is no assurance that the quantities of stock repurchased will continue at recent historical levels or at all, or that our stock repurchase programs or dividend declarations will have a beneficial impact on our stock price. We may also decide to incur indebtedness to support our repurchases, dividends or other activities. Although we currently have sufficient reserves in our international entities to fund existing and future stock repurchase programs and dividends, repatriating all or a portion of our foreign cash would likely result in material tax obligations.We have previously drawn funds and expect to continue drawing funds under our Credit Agreement from time to time, which amounts bear interest. Moreover, the Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply. These restrictions apply regardless of whether any loans are outstanding and could adversely impact how we operate our business, our operating results, and dividend declarations, which, in turn, may negatively impact our stock price. In addition, as we borrow additional funds under the Credit Agreement, we may be required to increase the borrowing limit under the Credit Agreement or seek additional sources of credit. Given current credit markets, there is no assurance that if we were to seek additional credit, it would be available when needed or if it is available, the cost or terms and conditions would be acceptable.We are subject to various regulatory requirements, and changes in such regulatory requirements may adversely impact our gross margins as we comply with such changes, reduce our ability to generate revenues if we are unable to comply, or decrease demand for our products if the actual or perceived quality of our products are negatively impacted.Our products must meet requirements set by regulatory authorities in the numerous jurisdictions in which we sell them. For example, certain of our OCC products must meet local phone system standards. Certain of our wireless products must work within existing frequency ranges permitted in various jurisdictions. Moreover, competition for limited radio frequency bandwidth as a result of an increasing number of wireless products by us, our competitors, and other third party product manufacturers increases the risk of interference or diminished product performance. In particular, the release of a third party wireless device in the U.S. that operates in the unlicensed 903-928 megahertz radio frequency range using significantly higher power than the power used by our wireless products and those of many other users of the unlicensed frequency range may cause our wireless products to experience interference which, if material, may harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales.As regulations and local laws change and competition increases, we must modify our products to address those changes. Regulatory restrictions and competition may increase the costs to design, manufacture, and sell our products, resulting in a decrease in our margins or a decrease in demand for our products if we attempt to pass along the costs. Compliance with regulatory restrictions and bandwidth limitations may impact the actual or perceived technical quality and capabilities of our products, reducing their marketability. In addition, if the products we supply to various jurisdictions or which are conveyed by customers or merchants into unauthorized jurisdictions fail to comply with the applicable local or regional regulations, our products might interfere with the proper operation of other devices, and we or consumers purchasing our products may be responsible for the damages that our products cause; thereby causing us to alter the performance of our products, pay substantial monetary damages or penalties, cause harm to our reputation, or cause us to suffer other adverse consequences. 19Table of ContentsWe are exposed to potential lawsuits alleging defects in our products and other claims related to the use of our products.The sales of our products expose us to the risk of product liability, including hearing loss claims. These claims have in the past been asserted against us. None of the previously resolved claims have materially affected our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that similar claims will not materially negatively impact our business or result in substantial damages, or both, in the future. Additionally, our mobile headsets are used with mobile telephones and there has been public controversy over whether the radio frequency emissions from mobile phones are harmful to users of mobile phones. We are unaware of any conclusive proof of any health hazard from the use of mobile phones, but research in this area continues. We have tested our headsets through independent laboratories and have found that use of our corded headsets reduces radio frequency emissions at the user's head to virtually zero and our Bluetooth and other wireless headsets emit significantly less powerful radio frequency emissions than mobile phones; however, if research establishes a health hazard from the use of mobile phones or public controversy grows even in the absence of conclusive research findings, the likelihood of litigation against us may increase. Likewise, should research establish a link between radio frequency emissions and corded or wireless headsets or should we become a party to litigation claiming such a link and public concern in this area grows, demand for our corded or wireless headsets could be reduced creating a material adverse effect on our financial results.There is also continuing public controversy over the use of mobile phones by operators of motor vehicles. While we believe that our products enhance driver safety by permitting a motor vehicle operator to generally keep both hands free to operate the vehicle, there is no certainty that this is the case, and we may be subject to claims arising from allegations that use of a mobile phone and headset contributed to a motor vehicle accident. We maintain product liability insurance and general liability insurance in amounts we believe sufficient to cover any claims, including those described above; however, the coverage provided under the policies could be unavailable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any one or more claims. Therefore, successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile and the value of an investment in our stock could be diminished.The market price for our common stock has been affected and may continue to be affected by a number of factors, including:•Uncertain global and regional economic and geopolitical conditions, including slow or stagnant growth, inflationary pressures, political or military unrest•Failure to meet our forecasts or the expectations and forecasts of securities analysts•Changes in our guidance or announced forecasts that may or may not be consistent with the expectations of analysts or investors•Quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations and changes in market share•The announcement of new products, product enhancements, or partnerships by us or our competitors•Our ability to develop, introduce, ship, and support new products and product enhancements and manage product transitions•Repurchases of our common shares under our repurchase plans or public announcement of our intention not to repurchase our common shares•Our decision to declare dividends or increase or decrease dividends over historical rates•The loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees•Changes in earnings estimates, recommendations, or ratings by securities analysts or a reduction in the number of analysts following our stock•Developments in our industry, including new or increased enforcement of existing governmental regulations related to our products and new or revised communications standards•Concentrated ownership of our common stock by a limited number of institutional investors that may limit liquidity for investors interested in acquiring or selling positions in our common stock, particularly substantial positions•Sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market by us, our officers or directors, or unaffiliated third parties, including institutional investors•General economic, political, and market conditions, including market volatility•Litigation brought by or against us•Other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors 20Table of ContentsOur business could be materially adversely affected if we lose the benefit of the services of key personnel.Our success depends to a large extent upon the services of a limited number of executive officers and other key employees. The unanticipated loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs.There are multiple initiatives in several jurisdictions regarding the removal of certain potential environmentally sensitive materials from our products to comply with the European Union (“EU”) and other Directives on the Restrictions of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) and on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”). If it is determined that our products do not comply with RoHs or WEEE, or additional new or existing environmental laws or regulations in the U.S., Europe, or other jurisdictions are enacted or amended, we may be required to modify some or all of our products or replace one or more components in those products, which, if such modifications are possible, may be time-consuming, expensive to implement and decrease end-user demand, particularly if we increase prices to offset higher costs. If any of the foregoing were to happen, our ability to sell one or more of our products may be limited or prohibited causing a material negative effect on our financial results.We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations on a global basis, including those governing the use, discharge, and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our current manufacturing operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, it is possible that future environmental legislation may be enacted or current environmental legislation may be interpreted in any given country to create environmental liability with respect to our facilities, operations, or products. To the extent that we incur claims for environmental matters exceeding reserves or insurance for environmental liability, our operating results could be negatively impacted.We have $16.2 million of goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. If the carrying value of our goodwill were to exceed its implied fair value, or if the carrying value of intangible assets were not recoverable, an impairment loss may be recognized, which would adversely affect our financial results.As a result of past acquisitions we have $16.2 million of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2014. It is impossible at this time to determine if any future impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such charge related to these assets would be material. If such a charge is necessary, it may have a material adverse effect our financial results.If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation may be damaged, and we may be financially liable for damages.We rely on networks, information systems, and other technology (“information systems”), including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business activities, including procurement, manufacturing, sales, distribution, invoicing, and collections. We use information systems to process and report financial information internally and to comply with regulatory reporting. In addition, we depend on information systems for communications with our suppliers, distributors, and customers. Consequently, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns or service disruptions during routine operations, such as system upgrades or user errors, as well as network or hardware failures, malicious software, hackers, natural disasters, communications interruptions, or other events (collectively, "network incidents"). Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to network incidents. While, to date, we have not experienced a network incident resulting in material impairment to our operations, nor have we experienced material intentional or inadvertent disclosure of our data or information or the information or data of our customers or vendors, future network incidents could result in unintended disruption of our operations or disclosure of sensitive information or assets. Furthermore, we may experience targeted attacks and although we continue to invest in personnel, technologies, and training to prepare for and reduce the adverse consequences of such attacks, these investments are expensive and do not guarantee that such attacks will be unsuccessful, either completely or partially. 21Table of ContentsIf our information systems are disrupted or shutdown and we fail to timely and effectively resolve the issues, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits. Misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation, and have a negative impact on net operating results. In addition, we may suffer financial damage and damage to our reputation because of loss or misappropriation of our confidential information or assets, or those of our partners, customers, or suppliers. We could also be required to expend significant effort and incur financial costs to remedy security breaches or to repair or replace networks and information systems.War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which could negatively affect our operations and performance.War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused or could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, us, and our suppliers or customers. Our major business operations and those of many of our vendors and their sub-suppliers (collectively, "Suppliers") are subject to interruption by disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, and volcanic eruptions or other natural or manmade disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, public health issues, flu or similar epidemics or pandemics, and other events beyond our control and the control of our Suppliers. Our corporate headquarters, information technology, manufacturing, certain research and development activities, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults or flood zones. While we are partially insured for earthquake-related losses or floods, our operating results and financial condition could be materially affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or manmade disaster.Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any of the events described above, such events could significantly disrupt our operations or the operations of our Suppliers. In addition, should any of the events above arise we could be negatively impacted by the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions, delays in production, and disruptions in the operations of our Suppliers. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by these events.We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management and independent registered public accounting firm are required to report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements.We have consumed and will continue to consume management resources and incur significant expenses for Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, and we may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. If this were to occur, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits, or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments, and causing investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in a decline in the market price of our stock.Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law or a decision by our Board of Directors in the future may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could decrease the value of our stock.Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could also have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition by a third party. Further, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22Table of Contents