ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business could be harmed by market volatility and declines in general economic conditions If the financial markets deteriorate, our financial planning channel will suffer decreased revenues. Our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity, which generally result in lower revenues from trading activities and commissions. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions as well as losses from declines in the market value of securities held in trading, investment and underwriting positions. In periods of low volume, the fixed nature of certain expenses, including salaries and benefits, computer hardware and software costs, communications expenses and office leases, will adversely affect profitability. Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities and the failure of issuers and counterparts to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets in which we may incur losses in principal trading and market making activities. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future While, we reported a profit for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, we incurred losses in fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004 and may incur losses again in the future. As of June 30, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $29.8 million. If we fail to continue to earn profits, the value of a shareholders investment may decline. Certain private shareholders, including some of our directors and officers, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a vote of our shareholders On August 20, 2007, Michael Ryan (our Chief Executive Officer), Carole Enisman (our Executive Vice President of Operations), Ted Finkelstein (our Vice President and General Counsel), Dennis Conroy, Prime Partners, Inc. and Prime Partners II, LLC (holding companies owned in part by Michael Ryan), Wynnefield Small Cap Value Offshore Fund, Ltd., Wynnefield Partners Small Cap Value, L.P., Wynnefield Partners Small Cap Value, L.P.I and WebFinancial Corporation entered into a Shareholders Agreement concerning the voting of their shares of our common stock. These shareholders collectively own approximately 66.1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Pursuant to the shareholders agreement, these shareholders will have the ability to influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote, including, the election of directors. This concentration of ownership and control by these shareholders could delay or prevent a change in our control or other action, even when a change in control or other action might be in the best interests of our other shareholders. 8 Our staggered board may entrench management, could prevent or delay a change of control of our Company and discourage unsolicited shareholder proposals or bids for our common stock that may be in the best interests of our shareholders Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is divided into three classes, serving staggered three-year terms. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of our board of directors will be considered for election. Since our "staggered board" would prevent our shareholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management, delay or prevent a change in our control and discourage unsolicited shareholder proposals or unsolicited bids for our common stock that may be in the best interests of our shareholders. Making and integrating acquisitions could impair our operating results Our current strategy is to actively pursue acquisitions of tax preparation and accounting firms. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; and the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business. In paying for an acquisition, we may deplete our cash resources. Furthermore, there is the risk that our valuation assumptions, customer retention expectations and our models for an acquired product or business may be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to overvalue an acquisition target. There is also the risk that the contemplated benefits of an acquisition may not materialize as planned or may not materialize within the time period or to the extent anticipated. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to expand our financial planning business by hiring additional financial planners and opening new offices If the financial planners that we presently employ or recruit do not perform successfully, our operations may be adversely affected. We plan to continue to expand in the area of financial planning, by expanding the business of presently employed financial planners and by recruiting additional financial planners. Our revenue growth will in large part depend upon the expansion of existing business and the successful integration and profitability of the recruited financial planners. Our growth will also depend on the success of independent financial planners who are recruited to join us. The financial planning channel of our business has generated an increasing portion of our revenues during the past few years, and if such channel does not continue to be successful, our revenue may not increase. Our Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any adjustments that might result due the opening of new offices or from the uncertainties of a shift in the our business We may choose to open new offices. When we open a new office, we incur significant expenses to build out the office and to purchase furniture, equipment and supplies. We have found that a new office usually suffers a loss in its first year of operation, shows no material profit or loss in its second year of operation and does not attain profitability, if ever, until its third year of operation. Therefore, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in any year that we open a significant number of new offices. If the financial markets deteriorate, our financial planning channel will suffer decreased revenues. Our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity, which generally result in lower revenues from trading activities and commissions. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions as well as losses from declines in the market value of securities held in trading, investment and underwriting positions. In periods of low volume, the fixed nature of certain expenses, including salaries and benefits, computer hardware and software costs, communications expenses and office leases, will adversely affect profitability. Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities and the failure of issuers and counterparts to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets in which we may incur losses in our principal trading and market making activities. Our sale of 80.0 million shares of common stock in August 2007 and the 3.9 million shares in the Public Stock Offering significantly diluted the common stock ownership of our shareholders. Our potential sale of 16.1 million shares of common stock in the Public Stock Offering to the 2007 Investors will further dilute the common stock ownership of our shareholders, all of which could adversely affect future prices of our stock The significant dilution of the common stock ownership of existing shareholders resulting from our August 2007 private placements, and the dilution of common stock ownership resulting from our sale of 3.9 million shares of common stock in the Public Stock Offering, along with the potential sale of 16.1 million of common stock to the 2007 Investors in the Public Stock Offering could have an adverse effect on the future price of the shares of our common stock and on the future volume of the shares traded. 9 We are not quoted on a national securities exchange, which would limit our ability to raise capital and your ability to trade in our securities, and which results in additional regulatory requirements On April 23, 2008, FINRA cleared the request of vFinance Investments, Inc. for a quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board for Gilman Ciocia, Inc. common stock pursuant to NASD Rule 6640 and Rule 15c2-11 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company is now trading on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol GTAX. If the Company fails to meet criteria set forth in Rule 15c2-11 (for example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act), various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's securities, which may materially affect the ability of shareholders to sell the securities in the secondary market. Not being listed on a national securities exchange may make trading our shares difficult for investors, potentially leading to declines in the share price. It may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The low trading volume of the our common stock increases volatility, which could impair our ability to obtain equity financing Low trading volume in our common stock increases volatility, which could result in the impairment of our ability to obtain equity financing. As a result, historical market prices may not be indicative of market prices in the future. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuation. Our market price may be impacted by changes in earnings estimates by analysts, economic and other external factors and the seasonality of our business. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of the common stock may adversely affect the shareholders' ability to buy and sell the common stock and our ability to raise money in a future offering of common stock. Changing laws and regulations have resulted in increased compliance costs for us, which could affect our operating results Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and newly enacted SEC regulations have created additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. See Item 9A(T)."Controls and Procedures." The expense and diversion of management attention which result from litigation could have an adverse effect on our operating results and could harm our ability to effectively manage our business If we were to be found liable to clients for misconduct alleged in civil proceedings, our operations may be adversely affected. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. There has been an increase in litigation and arbitration within our securities industry in recent years, including class action suits seeking substantial damages. Broker-dealers such as PCS are subject to claims by dissatisfied clients, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, churning, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. Broker-dealers may be liable for the unauthorized acts of their retail brokers and independent contractors if they fail to adequately supervise their conduct. PCS is currently a defendant/respondent in numerous such proceedings. PCS maintains securities broker-dealer's professional liability insurance to insure against this risk, but the insurance policy contains a deductible (presently $50,000) and a cumulative cap on coverage (presently $3,000,000). In addition, certain activities engaged in by brokers may not be covered by such insurance. The adverse resolution of any legal proceedings involving us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. The outcome of the SEC investigation could have a material affect on our operating results On September 6, 2005, we received an informal inquiry from the SEC regarding variable annuity sales by our registered representatives during the period January 1, 2002 through August 1, 2005. On June 22, 2006, the SEC entered a formal order of investigation. Pursuant to SEC subpoenas, we have supplied documents to the SEC and several officers, employees and former employees have testified before the SEC. We cannot predict whether or not the investigation will result in an enforcement action. Further, if there were an enforcement action, we cannot predict whether or not our operating results would be affected. 10 Dependence on technology software and systems and our inability to provide assurance that our systems will be effective could adversely affect our operations As an information-financial services company with a subsidiary broker-dealer, we are greatly dependent on technology software and systems and on the internet to maintain customer records, effect securities transactions and prepare and file tax returns. In the event that there is an interruption to our systems due to internal systems failure or from an external threat, including terrorist attacks, fire and extreme weather conditions, our ability to prepare and file tax returns and to process financial transactions could be affected. We have offsite backup, redundant and remote failsafe systems in place to safeguard against these threats but there can be no assurance that such systems will be effective to prevent malfunction and adverse effects on operations. We face substantial competition. If we fail to remain competitive, we may lose customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. The financial planning and tax planning industries are highly competitive. If our competitors create new products or technologies, or are able to take away our customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our competitors include companies specializing in income tax preparation as well as companies that provide general financial services. Our principal competitors are H&R Block and Jackson Hewitt in the tax preparation field and many well-known national brokerage and insurance firms in the financial services field, including Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. Many of these competitors have larger market shares and significantly greater financial and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully with such competitors. Competition could cause us to lose existing clients, impact our ability to acquire new clients and increase advertising expenditures, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. Additionally, federal and state governments may in the future become direct competitors to our tax offerings. If federal and state governments provide their own software and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no charge it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal government has proposed legislation that could further this initiative. Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce the need for our services as a third party tax return preparer Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as us because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time, government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns. The passage of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a third party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Changes in the tax law that result in a decreased number of tax returns filed or a reduced size of tax refunds could harm our business From time to time, the United States Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service adopt policy and rule changes and other initiatives that result in a decrease in the number of tax returns filed or reduce the size of tax refunds. Similar changes in the tax law could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. The highly seasonal nature of our business presents a number of financial risks and operational challenges which, if we fail to meet, could materially affect our business Our business is highly seasonal. We generate substantially all of our tax preparation revenues during tax season, which is the period from January 1 through April 30. The concentration of this revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of operational challenges for us including: (i) cash and resource management during the first eight months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season; (ii) flexible staffing, because the number of employees at our offices during the peak of tax season is much higher than at any other time; (iii) accurate forecasting of revenues and expenses; and (iv) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations during peak season, which is the period from late January through April. 11 If we were unable to meet these challenges or were to experience significant business interruptions during tax season, which may be caused by labor shortages, systems failures, work stoppages, adverse weather or other events, many of which are beyond our control, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from departing employees and our ability to enforce contractual non-competition and non-solicitation provisions could adversely affect our operating results If a large number of our employees and financial planners depart and begin to compete with us, our operations may be adversely affected. Although we attempt to restrict such competition contractually, as a practical matter, enforcement of contractual provisions prohibiting small-scale competition by individuals is difficult. In the past, departing employees and financial planners have competed with us. They have the advantage of knowing our methods and, in some cases, having access to our clients. No assurance can be given that we will be able to retain our most important employees and financial planners or that we will be able to prevent competition from them or successfully compete against them. If a substantial amount of such competition occurs, the corresponding reduction of revenue may materially adversely affect our operating results. Departure of key personnel could adversely affect our operations If any of our key personnel were to leave the Company, our operations may be adversely affected. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and operate profitably depends on the continued employment of James Ciocia, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Michael Ryan, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Ted Finkelstein, our Vice President and General Counsel, Kathryn Travis, our Secretary, Carole Enisman, our Executive Vice President of Operations, and Karen Fisher, our Chief Accounting Officer. Michael Ryan and Carole Enisman are married. If any of these individuals become unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The decision not to pay dividends could impact the marketability of our common stock Our decision not to pay dividends could negatively impact the marketability of our common stock. Since our initial public offering of securities in 1994, we have not paid dividends and do not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance our growth. The release of restricted common stock may have an adverse affect on the market price of the common stock The release of various restrictions on the possible future sale of our common stock may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. Based on information received from our transfer agent, approximately 83.3 million shares of the common stock outstanding are "restricted securities" under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933. In general, under Rule 144, a person who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell, within any three month period, a number of shares of "restricted securities" that do not exceed the greater of one percent of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of such shares during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares of common stock by a person who is not an "affiliate" of the Company (as defined in Rule 144) and who has satisfied a six-month holding period, without any volume or other limitation. The general nature of the securities industry as well as its regulatory requirements could materially affect our business If a material risk inherent to the securities industry was to be realized, the value of our common stock may decline. The securities industry, by its very nature, is subject to numerous and substantial risks, including the risk of declines in price level and volume of transactions, losses resulting from the ownership, trading or underwriting of securities, risks associated with principal activities, the failure of counterparties to meet commitments, customer, employee or issuer fraud risk, litigation, customer claims alleging improper sales practices, errors and misconduct by brokers, traders and other employees and agents (including unauthorized transactions by brokers), and errors and failure in connection with the processing of securities transactions. Many of these risks may increase in periods of market volatility or reduced liquidity. In addition, the amount and profitability of activities in the securities industry are affected by many national and international factors, including economic and political conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, level and volatility of interest rates, legislative and regulatory changes, currency values, inflation, and the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, all of which are beyond our control. 12 Several current trends are also affecting the securities industry, including increasing consolidation, increasing use of technology, increasing use of discount and online brokerage services, greater self-reliance of individual investors and greater investment in mutual funds. These trends could result in our facing increased competition from larger broker-dealers, a need for increased investment in technology, or potential loss of clients or reduction in commission income. These trends or future changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. If new regulations are imposed on the securities industry, our operating results may be adversely affected. The SEC, FINRA, the NYSE and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the protection of customers and maintenance of specified levels of net capital by broker-dealers. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, FINRA, other U.S. governmental regulators or SROs. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC, other federal and state governmental authorities and SROs. PCS is subject to periodic examination by the SEC, FINRA, SROs and various state authorities. PCS sales practice, operations, recordkeeping, supervisory procedures and financial position may be reviewed during such examinations to determine if they comply with the rules and regulations designed to protect customers and protect the solvency of broker-dealers. Examinations may result in the issuance of letters to PCS, noting perceived deficiencies and requesting PCS to take corrective action. Deficiencies could lead to further investigation and the possible institution of administrative proceedings, which may result in the issuance of an order imposing sanctions upon PCS and/or their personnel. Our business may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to it as a financial market intermediary, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume and profitability of our, or our clients' trading activities in a specific period could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust policy and other governmental regulations and policies (including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board) and changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect the business and financial communities. System or network failures or breaches in connection with our services and products could reduce our sales, impair our reputation, increase costs or result in liability claims, and seriously harm our business Any disruption to our services and products, our own information systems or communications networks or those of third-party providers upon whom we rely as part of its own product offerings, including the internet, could result in the inability of our customers to receive our products for an indeterminate period of time. Our services may not function properly for any of the following reasons: o System or network failure; o Interruption in the supply of power; o Virus proliferation; o Security breaches; o Earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster; or o An act of war or terrorism. Although we have made significant investments, both internally and with third-party providers, in redundant and back-up systems for some of our services and products, these systems may be insufficient or may fail and result in a disruption of availability of our products or services to our customers. Any disruption to our services could impair our reputation and cause us to lose customers or revenue, or face litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect customers' personal information could result in significant fines and harm our brand and reputation We manage highly sensitive client information, which is regulated by law. Problems with the safeguarding and proper use of this information could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. 13 