1A. Risk Factors Competition. The businesses in which the Company is engaged are highly competitive. Many of the competitors are larger than the Company and have more resources. Many of the Company’s products are also subject to competition from alternative technologies and alternative products. To the extent the Company relies upon a single source for key components of several of its products, the Company believes there are alternate sources available for such components; however, there can be no assurance that the interruption of supplies of such components would not have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company, and that the Company, if required to do so, would be able to negotiate agreements with alternative sources on acceptable terms. Government Regulation. The demand for the Company’s leak detection and location systems and secondary containment piping systems is driven primarily by government regulation with respect to hazardous waste. Laws such as the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and standards such as the National Emission Standard for Hydrocarbon Airborne Particulates (“NESHAP”), have increased the demand for the Company’s leak detection and location and secondary containment piping systems. The Company’s filtration products business to a large extent is dependent on governmental regulation of air pollution at the federal and state levels. The Company believes that continuing growth in the sale of filtration products and services will be materially dependent on continuing enforcement of environmental laws such as the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (“Clean Air Act Amendments”). Although changes in such environmental regulations could significantly alter the demand for the Company’s products and services, the Company does not believe such a change is likely to decrease demand in the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company has experienced, and may experience additional, increased costs of compliance with other government regulations, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Dividends. The Company has not paid dividends in the past and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company’s line of credit agreement contains certain restrictions on payment of dividends. Changes in Government Policies and Laws, Worldwide Economic Conditions. The Company anticipates that international sales will represent an increasing portion of its total sales and that continued growth and profitability may require further international expansion. The Company’s financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales. Economic Factors. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The Company monitors and manages currency exposures that are associated with monetary asset positions, committed currency purchases and sales, and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Seasonality. Due to the seasonality of the Company's Piping Systems business, sales and earnings are typically lower during the late fall, winter and early spring (fourth and first quarters), due to unfavorable weather for construction over much of North America and are correspondingly higher during the late spring, summer and early fall months (second and third quarters). 9 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 