ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued PCS is subject to periodic examination by the SEC, FINRA, SROs and various state authorities. PCS sales practice, operations, recordkeeping, supervisory procedures and financial position may be reviewed during such examinations to determine if they comply with the rules and regulations designed to protect customers and protect the solvency of broker-dealers. Examinations may result in the issuance of letters to PCS, noting perceived deficiencies and requesting PCS to take corrective action. Deficiencies could lead to further investigation and the possible institution of administrative proceedings, which may result in the issuance of an order imposing sanctions upon PCS and/or their personnel. Our business may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to us as a financial market intermediary, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume and profitability of our, or our clients' trading activities in a specific period could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust policy and other governmental regulations and policies (including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board) and changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect the business and financial communities. System or network failures or breaches in connection with our services and products could reduce our sales, impair our reputation, increase costs or result in liability claims, and seriously harm our business. Any disruption to our services and products, our own information systems or communications networks or those of third-party providers upon whom we rely as part of our own product offerings, including the internet, could result in the inability of our customers to receive our products for an indeterminate period of time. Our services may not function properly for any of the following reasons: · System or network failure; · Interruption in the supply of power; · Virus proliferation; · Security breaches; · Earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster; or · An act of war or terrorism. Although we have made significant investments, both internally and with third-party providers, in redundant and back-up systems for some of our services and products, these systems may be insufficient or may fail and result in a disruption of availability of our products or services to our customers. Any disruption to our services could impair our reputation and cause us to lose customers or revenue, or face litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect customers’ personal information could result in significant fines and harm our brand and reputation. We manage highly sensitive client information, which is regulated by law. Problems with the safeguarding and proper use of this information could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. In the event Michael Ryan, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President, violates the supervisory restrictions imposed by an SEC Administrative Law Judge, sanctions could be imposed against Mr. Ryan and on the Company. On June 25, 2010, an SEC Administrative Law Judge issued a decision which became effective on August 5, 2010 concerning Mr. Ryan prohibiting him from serving in a supervisory capacity with any broker, dealer, or investment adviser, including our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AFP and PCS, with the right to reapply after one year. Mr. Ryan has not reapplied for a new supervisory license. Mr. Ryan continues to serve as the President and CEO of the Company. To insure that Mr. Ryan does not violate the supervisory restrictions contained in the decision, our Board of Directors has imposed a restriction on Mr. Ryan that prohibits him from exercising any supervisory authority over PCS and AFP, their activities or representatives, including our employees in their capacity as PCS representatives. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents 