Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThe Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Economic factors. In the latest recession, the economy experienced a severe and prolonged downturn which adversely impacted all of the Company's businesses, directly or indirectly. Downturns in such general economic conditions can significantly affect the business of our customers, which in turn affects demand, volumes, pricing, and operating margins for our services and products. Many of customers and suppliers felt the impact of the economic downturn. A downturn in one or more of our significant markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Because economic and market conditions vary within the Company's segments, the Company's performance by segment will also vary. In addition, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Failure to successfully manage any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Customer access to capital funds. Uncertainty about current economic market conditions poses risks that the Company's customers may postpone spending for capital improvement and maintenance projects in response to tighter credit markets or negative financial news, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the Company's products. The adverse effect of the recent credit availability experienced by the Emirate of Dubai has significantly decelerated construction activity both in the U.A.E. and across other GCC countries, negatively impacting sales volume at the U.A.E. facility.Rapid growth of business. Expansion may result in unanticipated adverse consequences, including significant strain on management, operations and financial systems as well as on the Company's ability to attract and retain competent employees. In the future, we may seek to grow our business by investing in new or existing facilities, making acquisitions, entering into partnerships and joint ventures, or constructing new facilities, which could entail 7a number of additional risks, including:•strain on working capital;•diversion of management from other activities which could impair the operation of existing businesses;•failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or facilities into existing operations;•inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;•loss of key personnel of the acquired business or facility;•exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and•failure to realize efficiencies, synergies and cost savings.As a result of these and other factors, including the general economic risk, the Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits from any recent or future acquisitions, new facility developments, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments.Changes in government policies and laws, worldwide economic conditions. International sales represent a significant portion of the Company's total sales and continued growth and profitability may involve further international expansion. The Company's financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include, but are not limited, to changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales.Government regulation. Demand for the Company's leak detection and location and secondary containment piping systems is driven primarily by government regulation with respect to hazardous waste. Laws such as the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and standards such as the National Emission Standard for Hydrocarbon Airborne Particulates have increased the demand for the Company's leak detection and location and secondary containment piping systems. Filtration products, to a large extent, is dependent on governmental regulation of air pollution at the federal and state levels. The Company believes that continuing growth in the sale of filtration products and services will be materially dependent on continuing enforcement of environmental laws such as the Clean Air Act. Although changes in such environmental regulations could significantly alter the demand for the Company's products and services, the Company does not believe such a change is likely to decrease demand in the foreseeable future.Financing. If there were an event of default under the Company's current revolving credit facility, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. The Company cannot assure that the assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay amounts due under any of the financing arrangements, if accelerated upon an event of default, or, that the Company would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments under any such arrangements. Complying with the covenants under the Company's revolving credit facility may limit management's discretion by restricting options such as:·incurring additional debt;·entering into transactions with affiliates;·making investments or other restricted payments;·paying dividends or make other distributions; and·creating liens.Any additional financing the Company may obtain could contain similar or more restrictive covenants. The Company's ability to comply with any covenants may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond management's control.Competition. The businesses in which the Company is engaged are highly competitive. Many of the competitors 8are larger and have more resources. Additionally, many of the Company's products are also subject to competition from alternative technologies and alternative products. To the extent the Company relies upon a single source for key components of several of its products, the Company believes there are alternate sources available for such components; however, there can be no assurance that the interruption of supplies of such components would not have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company and that the Company, if required to do so, would be able to negotiate agreements with alternative sources on acceptable terms. In periods of declining demand, the Company's fixed cost structure may limit ability to cut costs, which may be a competitive disadvantage to firms with lower cost structures, or may result in reduced operating margins and operating losses.Backlog. The Company defines backlog as the revenue value in dollars resulting from confirmed customer purchase orders that have not yet been recognized as revenue. However, by industry practice, orders may be canceled or modified at any time. If a customer cancels an order, the customer is responsible for all finished goods, all direct and indirect costs incurred and also for a reasonable allowance for anticipated profits. No assurance can be given that these amounts will be recovered after cancellation. Any cancellation or delay in orders may result in lower than expected revenue.Percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The Company measures and recognizes a portion of revenue and profits under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows revenue and profits to be recognized proportionally over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the cost incurred to date against the total amount of cost expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and total estimated cost is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. These revisions can occur at any time and could be material. On a historical basis, management believes that reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion on long-term contracts have been made. However, given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual cost to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits.Regulatory and legal requirements. As a public company, the Company is required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Keeping informed of and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Dodd-Frank Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - None.