ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. We depend on a small number of customers for a large percentage of our revenues. The loss of any single customer, a reduction in sales to any such customer, or the decline in the financial condition of any such customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of our revenues in any given year. Our top ten customers represent approximately 31% and 32.1% of our total revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. A single automotive program accounted for approximately 13.9% and 13.0%, respectively, of our Component Products segment sales and approximately 9.3% and 8.0% of our total sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The program is scheduled to phase out beginning in the third quarter of 2011, although it is uncertain at this time whether the phase-out will occur as scheduled. Assuming the phase-out occurs as scheduled, we expect sales from this program to decline over the next three years. Our revenues are directly dependent on the ability of our customers to develop, market, and sell their products in a timely, cost-effective manner. The loss of a significant portion of our expected future sales to any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and financial results. Likewise, a material adverse change in the financial condition of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect accounts receivable from any such customer. We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that involve inherent risks, any of which may cause us to not realize anticipated benefits. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses and entering into joint ventures and other business combinations that we expect will complement and expand our business. For example, during 2009 we acquired selected assets of Foamade Industries, Inc., E.N. Murray Co., and Advanced Materials, Inc. as discussed in Note 19 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction 9 on acceptable terms. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of these opportunities including their effects on our business, diversion of our management’s attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or unforeseen liabilities. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions or joint ventures, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt, or issue additional securities, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures that we complete. Should we successfully acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing business. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. Fluctuations in the supply of components and raw materials we use in manufacturing our products could cause production delays or reductions in the number of products we manufacture, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of periodic shortages of raw materials. We purchase raw materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Failure or delay by such suppliers in supplying us necessary raw materials could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. While we believe that we may, in certain circumstances, secure alternative sources of these materials, we may incur substantial delays and significant expense in doing so, the quality and reliability of alternative sources may not be the same and our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices for materials than we currently pay. Under such circumstances, the disruption to our business could have a material adverse impact on our customer relationships, business, financial condition, and results of operations. The cost of raw materials that we use to manufacture our products, particularly petroleum and petroleum-based raw materials, are subject to escalation and could increase, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of raw materials, including petroleum and petroleum-based raw materials such as resins, used in the production of our products, represents a significant portion of our direct manufacturing costs. We have provisions in most of our sales orders that allow us to pass on to our customers price fluctuations related to certain raw materials, including petroleum. The number of customers to which we are not able to pass on such price increases may increase in the future, and any such increase could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flows. Any fluctuations in the price of petroleum, or any other material used in the production of our products, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such price increases could reduce demand for our products. If we are not able to buy raw materials at fixed prices, or pass on price increases to our customers, we may lose orders or enter into orders with less favorable terms, 10 any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use electricity and natural gas at our manufacturing facilities to operate our equipment. Over the past several years, prices for electricity and natural gas have fluctuated significantly. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, a prolonged armed conflict in the Middle East, or a natural disaster, could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of electricity or energy generally as well as an increase in the cost of our raw materials, of which many are petroleum-based. In addition, increased energy costs negatively impact our freight costs due to higher fuel prices. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly electricity for plant operations, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. Our Packaging segment may lose business if our customers shift their manufacturing offshore. Historically, geography has played a large factor in the packaging business. Manufacturing and other companies shipping products typically buy packaging from companies that are relatively close to their manufacturing facilities to increase shipping efficiency and decrease costs. As many U.S. companies move their manufacturing operations overseas, particularly to the Far East, the associated packaging business often follows. We have lost customers in the past and may lose customers again in the future as a result of customers moving their manufacturing facilities offshore, then hiring our competitors that operate packaging-production facilities perceived to be more territorially advantageous. As a result, our sales may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. Failure to retain key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy. The continuing service of our executive officers and essential engineering, technical and management personnel, together with our ability to attract and retain such personnel, is an important factor in our continuing ability to execute our strategy. There is substantial competition to attract such employees, and the loss of any such key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The same could be true if we were to experience a high turnover rate among engineering and technical personnel and we were unable to replace them. Members of our board of directors and management who also are our stockholders exert significant influence over us. Based on information made available to us, we believe that our executive officers, directors and their affiliates collectively owned approximately 18% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 2, 2011. As a result, those stockholders may, if acting together, control or exert substantial influence over actions requiring stockholders’ approval, including elections of our directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers, sales of assets or other business acquisitions or dispositions. 11 As a public company, we need to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of these laws or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us, could be materially and adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. We are also subject to certain of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank Acts which, among other things, require enhanced disclosure of business, financial, compensation and governance information. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits, and restrict our ability to access financing. We may identify areas requiring improvement with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, and we may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified. This could result in significant delays and cost to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan may dissuade potential acquirers, prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. The board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting rights of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible financings, acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Further, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. We also have a stockholder rights plan designed to protect and enhance the value of our outstanding equity interests in the event of an unsolicited attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by the board of directors and that would prevent stockholders from realizing the full value of their shares of our common stock. Its purposes are to deter those takeover attempts that the board believes are undesirable, to give the board more time to evaluate takeover proposals and consider alternatives, and to increase the board’s negotiating position to enhance value in the event of a takeover. The rights issued pursuant to the plan are not intended to prevent all takeovers of our Company. However, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging our acquisition. The rights may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by the board of directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon the negation, purchase, or redemption of the rights with respect to which the condition is satisfied. 12 Additional provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. These include provisions that classify our board of directors, limit the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, call special meetings, remove a director for cause, amend the bylaws, or approve a merger with another company. In addition, our bylaws set forth advance notice procedures for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. 