ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. We depend on a small number of customers for a large percentage of our revenues. The loss of any such customer, a reduction in sales to any such customer, or the decline in the financial condition of any such customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of our revenues in any given year. Our top ten customers represent approximately 27%, 28%, and 31% of our total revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A single automotive program accounted for approximately 6.6%, 10.9%, and 13.9%, respectively, of our Component Products segment sales and approximately 4.4%, 7.2%, and 9.3% of our total sales in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The loss of a significant portion of our expected future sales to any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and financial results. Likewise, a material adverse change in the financial condition of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect accounts receivable from any such customer. We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that involve inherent risks, any of which may cause us to not realize anticipated benefits. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses and entering into joint ventures and other business combinations that we expect will complement and expand our business. For example, in 2012 we acquired substantially all of the assets of Packaging Alternatives Corporation (“PAC”), as discussed in Note 18 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of these opportunities including their effects on our business, diversion of our management’s attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or unforeseen liabilities. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions or joint ventures, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt, or issue additional securities, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures that we complete. Should we successfully acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing business. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. Fluctuations in the supply of components and raw materials we use in manufacturing our products could cause production delays or reductions in the number of products we manufacture, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of periodic shortages of raw materials. We purchase raw materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Failure or delay by such 8 suppliers in supplying us necessary raw materials could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. While we believe that we may, in certain circumstances, secure alternative sources of these materials, we may incur substantial delays and significant expense in doing so, the quality and reliability of alternative sources may not be the same and our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices for materials than we currently pay. Under such circumstances, the disruption to our business could have a material adverse impact on our customer relationships, business, financial condition, and results of operations. The cost of raw materials that we use to manufacture our products, particularly petroleum and petroleum-based raw materials, are subject to escalation and could increase, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of raw materials, including petroleum and petroleum-based raw materials such as resins, used in the production of our products, represents a significant portion of our direct manufacturing costs. We have provisions in most of our sales orders that allow us to pass price fluctuations related to certain raw materials, including petroleum, on to our customers. The number of customers to which we are not able to pass on such price increases may increase in the future, and any such increase could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flows. Any fluctuations in the price of petroleum, or any other material used in the production of our products, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such price increases could reduce demand for our products. If we are not able to buy raw materials at fixed prices, or pass on price increases to our customers, we may lose orders or enter into orders with less favorable terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use electricity and natural gas at our manufacturing facilities to operate our equipment. Over the past several years, prices for electricity and natural gas have fluctuated significantly. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, or a natural disaster, could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of electricity or energy generally as well as an increase in the cost of our raw materials, of which many are petroleum-based. In addition, increased energy costs negatively impact our freight costs due to higher fuel prices. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly electricity for plant operations, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. Our Packaging segment may lose business if our customers shift their manufacturing offshore. Historically, geography has played a large factor in the packaging business. Manufacturing and other companies shipping products typically buy packaging from companies that are relatively close to their manufacturing facilities to increase shipping efficiency and decrease costs. As many U.S. companies move their manufacturing operations overseas, particularly to the Far East, the associated packaging business often follows. We have lost customers in the past and may lose customers again in the future as a result of customers moving their manufacturing facilities offshore, then hiring our competitors that operate packaging-production facilities perceived to be more territorially advantageous. As a result, our sales may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. Failure to retain key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy. The continuing service of our executive officers and essential engineering, technical and management personnel, together with our ability to attract and retain such personnel, is an important factor in our continuing ability to execute our strategy. There is substantial competition to attract such employees, and the loss of any such key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The same could be true if we were to experience a high turnover rate among engineering and technical personnel and we were unable to replace them. 9 Members of our board of directors and management who also are our stockholders exert significant influence over us. Based on information made available to us, we believe that our executive officers, directors and their affiliates collectively owned approximately 22.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 1, 2013. As a result, those stockholders may, if acting together, control or exert substantial influence over actions requiring stockholders’ approval, including elections of our directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers, sales of assets or other business acquisitions or dispositions. As a public company, we need to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of these laws or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us, could be materially and adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. We are also subject to certain of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank Acts which, among other things, require enhanced disclosure of business, financial, compensation and governance information. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits, and restrict our ability to access financing. We may identify areas requiring improvement with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, and we may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified. This could result in significant delays and cost to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to perform diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. We may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. In the ordinary course of our business we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems and, if successful, misappropriate personal or confidential business information. In addition, an associate, contractor, or other third-party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently 10 cause a breach involving such information. Any such compromise of our data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers’ willingness to transact business with us, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could adversely affect our business. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan may dissuade potential acquirers, prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. The board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting rights of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible financings, acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Further, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. We also have a stockholder rights plan designed to protect and enhance the value of our outstanding equity interests in the event of an unsolicited attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by the board of directors and that would prevent stockholders from realizing the full value of their shares of our common stock. Its purposes are to deter those takeover attempts that the board believes are undesirable, to give the board more time to evaluate takeover proposals and consider alternatives, and to increase the board’s negotiating position to enhance value in the event of a takeover. The rights issued pursuant to the plan are not intended to prevent all takeovers of our Company. However, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging our acquisition. The rights may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by the board of directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon the negation, purchase, or redemption of the rights with respect to which the condition is satisfied. Additional provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. These include provisions that classify our board of directors, limit the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, call special meetings, remove a director for cause, amend the bylaws, or approve a merger with another company. In addition, our bylaws set forth advance notice procedures for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. The continuing worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects. The continuing uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and continuing weak worldwide macroeconomic conditions may cause our customers to decrease their purchasing and procurement activities. Additionally, constrictions in world credit markets may cause our customers to experience increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. Economic uncertainty may result in cost-conscious consumers and adversely affect demand for our products. If the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted. 11 Our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet applicable specifications. We are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. Our existing and newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. If, despite internal testing, and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet applicable specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recalls, or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. 