Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Our financial condition raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered certified public accounting firm has included in their audit opinion on our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 a statement with respect to substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue to operate as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our financial statements. The substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern may adversely affect our ability to negotiate reasonable terms with our suppliers and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the future. We have had a history of losses which may ultimately compromise our ability to implement our business plan and continue in operation. We have had losses in each year since our inception in 1989, and continue to have an accumulated deficit which, at December 31, 2011, was approximately $241.8 million. The net loss for 2011 was approximately $14.6 million. To date, our technologies and products have not produced revenues sufficient to cover operating, research and development and overhead costs. We also will continue to make expenditures on marketing, research and development, pursuit of patent protection for and defense of our intellectual property and operational costs for fulfillment of any contracts that we achieve for the sale of our products or technologies. We expect that our revenues in 2012, if any, will not bring the Company to profitability and our current capital resources will not be sufficient to sustain our operations through 2012. If we are not able to generate sufficient revenues or obtain sufficient capital resources, we will not be able to implement our business plan and investors will suffer a loss in their investment. This may result in a change in our business strategies. 8 We expect to need additional capital in the future, which, if we are unable to raise will result in our not being able to implement our business plan as currently formulated. Because we have had net losses and, to date, have not generated positive cash flow from operations, we have funded our operating losses from the sale of equity securities from time to time. We anticipate that our business plan will continue to require significant expenditures for research and development, patent protection, sales and marketing, and general operations. Furthermore, we expect that the implementation of significant cost reduction measures in order to reduce our cash needs would jeopardize our operations and future growth plans. Our current capital resources include cash, cash equivalents, and available for sale securities of $5.2 million at December 31, 2011. We believe our current capital resources will not be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for 2012, and we will require additional capital to fund our operations. Financing, if any, may be in the form of debt or additional sales of equity securities. The incurrence of debt or the sale of preferred stock may result in the imposition of operational limitations and other covenants and payment obligations, any of which may be burdensome to us. The sale of equity securities will result in dilution to the current shareholders’ ownership. The long-term continuation of our business plan is dependent upon the generation of sufficient revenues from the sale of our products, additional funding, reducing expenses or a combination of the foregoing. The failure to generate sufficient revenues, raise capital or reduce expenses will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our long-term business objectives. Our industry is subject to rapid technological changes which if we are unable to match or surpass, will result in a loss of competitive advantage and market opportunity. Because of the rapid technological development that regularly occurs in the microelectronics industry, we must continually devote substantial resources to developing and improving our technology and introducing new product offerings. For example, in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, we spent approximately $8.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively, on research and development, and we expect to continue to spend a significant amount in this area in the future. These efforts and expenditures are necessary to establish and increase market share and, ultimately, to generate revenues. If another company offers better products or our product development lags, a competitive position or market window opportunity may be lost, and therefore our revenues or revenue potential may be adversely affected. If our products are not commercially accepted, our developmental investment will be lost and our ability to do business will be impaired. There can be no assurance that our research and development will produce commercially viable technologies and products. If existing or new technologies and products are not commercially accepted, the funds expended will not be recoverable, and our competitive and financial position will be adversely affected. In addition, perception of our business prospects will be impaired with an adverse impact on our ability to do business and to attract capital and employees. If our patents and intellectual property do not provide us with the anticipated market protections and competitive position, our business and prospects will be impaired. We rely on our intellectual property, including patents and patent applications, to provide competitive advantage and protect us from theft of our intellectual property. We believe that many of our patents are for entirely new technologies. If the patents are not issued or issued patents are later shown not to be as broad as currently believed, or are otherwise challenged such that some or all of the protection is lost, we will suffer adverse effects from the loss of competitive advantage and our ability to offer unique products and technologies. As a result, there would be an adverse impact on our financial condition and business prospects. On July 20, 2011, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court of the Middle District of Florida against Qualcomm Incorporated seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief for infringement of a number of our patents related to radio-frequency receivers and the down-conversion of electromagnetic signals. Qualcomm has filed counterclaims against us. The trial date for this case is set for August 2013. At this time, we do not believe it is possible to predict the outcome of the litigation. We could incur significant costs in this litigation and there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that any damages we receive will 9 cover our costs. Furthermore, the litigation may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could adversely affect our ability to pursue our business plan. If we cannot demonstrate that our technologies and products can compete in the marketplace and are better than current competitive solutions, then we will not be able to generate the sales we need to continue our business and our prospects will be impaired. We expect to face competition from chip suppliers such as Anadigics, Broadcom, Fujitsu, Intel, MediaTek, Qualcomm, Renesas, RF Microdevices, Skyworks, and ST-Ericsson, among others. Our technology may also face competition from other emerging approaches or new technological advances which are under development and have not yet emerged. If our technologies and products are not established in the market place as improvements over current, traditional chip solutions in wireless communications, our business prospects and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our business is highly reliant on our business relationships with baseband suppliers for support of the interface of their product to our technology and the support of our sales and marketing efforts to their customers, the failure of which will have an adverse impact on our business. The successful commercialization of our products will be impacted, in part, by factors outside of our control including the success and timing of product development and sales support activities of the suppliers of baseband processors with which our products interface. Delays in or failure of a baseband supplier’s product development or sales support activities will hinder the commercialization of our products which will have an adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and recover development expenses. We rely, in large part, on key business and sales relationships for the successful commercialization of our products, which if not developed or maintained, will have an adverse impact on achieving market awareness and acceptance and will result in a loss of business opportunity. To achieve a wide market awareness and acceptance of our products, as part of our business strategy, we will attempt to enter into a variety of business relationships with other companies which will incorporate our technologies into their products and/or market products based on our technologies. The successful commercialization of our products will depend in part on our ability to meet obligations under contracts with respect to the products and related development requirements. The failure of these business relationships will limit the commercialization of our products which will have an adverse impact on our business development and our ability to generate revenues and recover development expenses. We are highly dependent on Mr. Jeffrey Parker as our chief executive officer. If his services were lost, it would have an adverse impact on our leadership and on how we are perceived within the industry and by investors. Because of Mr. Parker’s position in the company and the respect he has garnered in both the industry in which we operate and the investment community, the loss of his services might be seen as an impediment to the execution of our business plan. If Mr. Parker were no longer available to the company, investors might experience an adverse impact on their investment. We currently have an employment agreement with Mr. Parker and we maintain key-employee life insurance for our benefit on Mr. Parker. If we are unable to attract or retain key executives and other highly skilled employees, we will not be able to execute our current business plans. Our business is very specialized, and therefore it is dependent on having skilled and specialized key executives and other employees to conduct our research, development and customer support activities. The inability to obtain or retain these key executives and other specialized employees would have an adverse impact on the research, development and technical customer support activities that our products require. These activities are instrumental to the successful execution of our business plan. Our outstanding options and warrants may affect the market price and liquidity of the common stock. At December 31, 2011, we had 67,573,775 shares of common stock outstanding and had 11,105,288 options and warrants outstanding for the purchase of shares of common stock. Of these outstanding options and warrants, 8,460,411 were exercisable as of December 31, 2011. The majority of the underlying common 10 stock of these securities is registered for sale to the holder or for public resale by the holder. The amount of common stock available for the sales may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise capital and may affect the price and liquidity of the common stock in the public market. In addition, the issuance of these shares of common stock will have a dilutive effect on current shareholders’ ownership. The bid price of our common stock has been below the minimum requirement for the NASDAQ Capital Market and there can be no assurance that we will continue to maintain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for trading on that market or another national securities exchange. On November 2, 2011, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price for our common stock had been below the minimum of $1 per share required for continued inclusion on the exchange. The notification letter stated that we would be afforded 180 calendar days, or until April 30, 2012 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirement, the closing bid price for shares of our common stock had to remain at $1 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. On March 23, 2012, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain compliance. If we are unable to do so and our common stock is no longer listed on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, the liquidity and market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We may not be able to deliver shares of common stock upon exercise of our public warrants if such issuance has not been registered or qualified or deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrant. On March 3, 2009, November 3, 2010, and March 30, 2011, we sold warrants to the public in offerings registered under shelf registration statements. The issuance of common stock upon exercise of these warrants must qualify for exemption from registration under the securities laws of the state of residence of the warrant holder. The qualification for exemption from registration may differ in different states. As a result, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for such exercise and we may be precluded from issuing such shares. If our common stock continues to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another national securities exchange, an exemption from registration in every state for the issuance of common stock upon exercise of these warrants would be available. However, we cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be so listed. As a result, these warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for these warrants may be limited and the holders of these warrants may not be able to obtain shares of common stock upon exercise of the warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or otherwise exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Provisions in the certificate of incorporation and by-laws could have effects that conflict with the interest of shareholders. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. For example, the board of directors has the ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, and there are pre-notification provisions for director nominations and submissions of proposals from shareholders to a vote by all the shareholders under the by-laws. Florida law also has anti-takeover provisions in its corporate statute. We have a shareholder protection rights plan that may delay or discourage someone from making an offer to purchase the company without prior consultation with the board of directors and management which may conflict with the interests of some of the shareholders. On November 17, 2005, the board of directors adopted a shareholder protection rights plan which called for the issuance, on November 29, 2005, as a dividend, of rights to acquire fractional shares of preferred stock. The rights are attached to the shares of common stock and transfer with them. In the future the rights may become exchangeable for shares of preferred stock with various provisions that may discourage a takeover bid. Additionally, the rights have what are known as “flip-in” and “flip-over” provisions that could make any acquisition of the company more costly. The principal objective of the plan is to cause someone interested in acquiring the company to negotiate with the board of directors rather than launch an unsolicited bid. This 11 plan may limit, prevent, or discourage a takeover offer that some shareholders may find more advantageous than a negotiated transaction. A negotiated transaction may not be in the best interests of the shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 