ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s (“We” or “Our”) operations are subject to many risks that could adversely affect our future financial condition and performance and, therefore, the market value of our securities. The risk factors applicable to us are the following: We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to: • open new financial service centers; • attract deposits to those locations; and • identify attractive loan and investment opportunities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future. Our ability to manage our growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any new financial service centers into our organization. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new financial service centers, we expect to incur construction costs and increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. We generally must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, our plans to grow could depress our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute this growth. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. Our banking subsidiary faces vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Our non-banking subsidiary faces competition from money managers and investment brokerage firms. To a limited extent, our banking subsidiary also competes with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank 20 competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business and the value we can recognize on the sale of mortgage and home equity loans in the secondary market. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Based on our asset/liability position at December 31, 2008, a rise in interest rates would reduce our net interest income in the short term. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. At December 31, 2008, approximately 32.2% and 38.1% of our $711.7 million total loan portfolio were secured by commercial and residential real estate, respectively. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could negatively impact us. While we are in one of the fastest growing real estate markets in the United States, risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. Our banking operations are located primarily in the Virginia counties of Loudoun, Fairfax and Fauquier. Because our lending is concentrated in this market, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact the demand for banking products and services generally, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. A loss of our senior officers could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. Many community banks attract customers based on the personal relationships that the banks’ officers and customers establish with each other and the confidence that the customers have in the officers. We depend on the performance of our senior officers. These officers have many years of experience in the banking industry and have numerous contacts in our market area. The loss of the services of any of our senior officers, or the failure of any of them to perform management functions in the manner anticipated by our board of directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent upon the board’s ability to attract and retain quality personnel, including these individuals. We do not carry key man life insurance on our senior officers. 21 Many of the loans in our loan portfolio are too new to show any sign of problems. Due to the economic growth in our market area and the opening of new financial service centers, a significant portion of our loans have been originated in the past several years, and 26.8% were originated in the last 18 months. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process known as ‘seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Although we believe we have conservative underwriting standards, it is more difficult to assess the future performance of the loan portfolio due to the recent origination of many of the loans. Thus, there can be no assurance that charge-offs in the future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses or that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will not be required. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at new branch locations as well as investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. Our profitability and the value of your investment may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. Revenue from our mortgage lending investment is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates and may adversely impact our profits. Maintaining our revenue stream from our mortgage banking subsidiary, Southern Trust Mortgage, is dependent upon its ability to originate loans and sell them to investors. Loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and can suffer from decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates. Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could adversely affect Southern Trust Mortgage’s mortgage originations and, consequently, reduce its income from mortgage lending activities. As a result, these conditions may ultimately adversely affect our net income. Banking regulators have broad enforcement power, but regulations are meant to protect depositors, and not investors. The Company is subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies. Bank regulations, and the interpretation and application of them by regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. In addition, these regulations may limit 22 the Company’s growth and the return to investors by restricting activities such as the payment of dividends, mergers with, or acquisitions by, other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on depositors and the creation of financial service centers. Information on the regulations that impact the Company are included in Item 1., “Business – Supervision and Regulation,” above. Although these regulations impose costs on the Company, they are intended to protect depositors, and should not be assumed to protect the interest of shareholders. The regulations to which we are subject may not always be in the best interest of investors. Trading in our common stock has been sporadic and volume has been light. As a result, shareholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their common stock. Although our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market and a number of brokers offer to make a market in common stock on a regular basis, trading volume to date has been limited and there can be no assurance that an active and liquid market for the common stock will develop. Our directors and officers have significant voting power. Our directors and officers beneficially own 16.3% of our common stock and may purchase additional shares of our common stock by exercising vested stock options. By voting against a proposal submitted to shareholders, the directors and officers may be able to make approval more difficult for proposals requiring the vote of shareholders such as mergers, share exchanges, asset sales and amendment to the Company’s articles of incorporation. The Company has no assurances regarding the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The Company believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses in its loan portfolio given current known information. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based upon many factors, including the following: • actual loan loss history; • volume, growth and composition of the loan portfolio; • the amount of non-performing loans and the value of their related collateral; • the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values; • the effect of current economic conditions on a borrower’s ability to pay; and • other factors deemed relevant by management. These determinations are based upon estimates that are inherently subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events; therefore, realized losses may differ from current estimates. Changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which are generally beyond the Company’s control, could increase actual loan losses significantly. As a result, actual losses could exceed the Company’s current allowance estimate. The Company cannot provide assurance that its allowance for loan losses is sufficient to cover actual loan losses should such losses differ significantly from the current estimates. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased 23 providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “TARP Capital Purchase Program”). On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (“FDA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). More recently, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which amends certain provisions of the EESA and contains a wide array of provisions aimed at stimulating the U.S. economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and AARA and their implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the AARA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial 24 markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program will limit (without the consent of the Department of Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums even if we do not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The affects of participating or not participating in any such programs and the extent of our participation in such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 