Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Significant deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting raise doubts about the Company's ability to comply with financial reporting law and regulations and to publish accurate financial statements The Company has been advised by Sherb & Co., LLP, its auditors, of the existence of a reportable condition involving significant deficiencies in the design and operation of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting that could adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements. Specifically, the Company did not have effective controls over estimating and monitoring the legal and litigation reserves recorded as a liability. A material weakness is defined as a reportable condition in which the design or operation of one or more of the internal control components does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that misstatements caused by error or fraud in amounts that would be material in relation to the financial statements being audited may occur and not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. The Company's substantial debt and decreased access to capital could result in insufficient funds to meet its working capital requirements The Company has been operating with low levels of capital during recent periods. While the Company itself is not subject to any minimum capital requirement, it requires working capital to pay salaries, pay vendors, including landlords, and otherwise operate its business. At June 30, 2006 the Company had a working capital deficit of $14.6 million and the Company has regularly been forced to borrow from Prime Partners to pay its obligations. In fiscal 2006, Prime Partners extended short-term loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $3.1 million for working capital purposes. At June 30, 2006, the Company owed Prime Partners $2.1 million. In July and August 2006, Prime Partners loaned the Company an additional $1.0 million and as of September 13, 2006 the Company owed Prime Partners $2.6 million. Changing laws and regulations have resulted in increased compliance costs for the Company, which could affect its operating results Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and newly enacted SEC regulations have created additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company intends to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. See Item 9A."Controls and Procedures." The expense and diversion of management attention which result from litigation could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results and could harm its ability to effectively manage its business If the Company were to be found liable to clients for misconduct alleged in civil proceedings, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. Many aspects of the Company's business involve substantial risks of liability. There has been an increase in litigation and arbitration within the Company's securities industry in recent years, including class action suits seeking substantial damages. Broker-dealers such as PCS are subject to claims by dissatisfied clients, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, churning, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, PAGE 9 mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. Broker-dealers may be liable for the unauthorized acts of their retail brokers and independent contractors if they fail to adequately supervise their conduct. PCS is currently a defendant/respondent in numerous such proceedings. PCS maintains securities broker-dealer's professional liability insurance to insure against this risk, but the insurance policy contains a deductible (presently $50,000) and a cumulative cap on coverage (presently $3,000,000). In addition, certain activities engaged in by brokers may not be covered by such insurance. The adverse resolution of any legal proceedings involving the Company could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. The outcome of the SEC investigation could have a material affect on the Company's operating results On September 6, 2005, the Company received an informal inquiry from the SEC regarding variable annuity sales by the Company's registered representatives during the period January 1, 2002 through August 1, 2005. On June 22, 2006, the SEC entered a formal order of investigation. The Company cannot predict whether or not the investigation will result in an enforcement action. Further, if there were an enforcement action, the Company cannot predict whether or not its operating results would be affected. The delisting of Company shares could make trading the Company's shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in the share price The shares of the Company's common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ National Market in August 2002 and are now traded on what is commonly referred to as the "pink sheets". As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. In addition, the Company is now subject to Rule 15c2-11 promulgated by the SEC. If the Company fails to meet criteria set forth in such Rule (for example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act), various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's securities, which may materially affect the ability of shareholders to sell the securities in the secondary market. The delisting could make trading the Company's shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in the share price. It would also make it more difficult for the Company to raise additional capital. Due to the delisting, the Company would also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if the Company were to sell equity. The Company's operations may be adversely affected if it is not able to expand its financial planning business by hiring additional financial planners and opening new offices If the financial planners that the Company presently employs or recruits do not perform successfully, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. The Company plans to continue to expand in the area of financial planning, by expanding the business of presently employed financial planners and by recruiting additional financial planners. The Company's revenue growth will in large part depend upon the expansion of existing business and the successful integration and profitability of the recruited financial planners. The Company's growth will also depend on the successful operation of independent financial planners who are recruited to join the Company. The financial planning channel of the Company's business has generated an increasing portion of the Company's revenues during the past few years, and if such channel does not continue to be successful, the Company's revenue may not increase. The Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any adjustments that might result due to these events or from the uncertainties of a shift in the Company's business. The Company may choose to open new offices. When the Company opens a new office, the Company incurs significant expenses to build out the office and to purchase furniture, equipment and supplies. The Company has found that a new office usually suffers a loss in its first year of operation, shows no material profit or loss in its second year of operation and does not attain profitability, if ever, until its third year of operation. Therefore, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected in any year that the Company opens a significant number of new offices. If the financial markets deteriorate, the Company's financial planning channel will suffer decreased revenues. The Company's revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity, which generally result in lower revenues from trading activities and commissions. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions as well as losses from declines in the market value of securities held in trading, investment and underwriting positions. In periods of low volume, the fixed nature of certain expenses, including salaries and benefits, computer hardware and software costs, communications expenses and office leases, will adversely affect profitability. Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities and the failure of issuers and counterparts to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets in which the Company may incur losses in its principal trading and market making activities. PAGE 10 Dependence on technology software and systems and the Company's inability to provide assurance that their fail-safe systems will be effective could adversely affect the Company's operations As an information-financial services company with a subsidiary broker-dealer, the Company is greatly dependent on technology software and systems and on the Internet to maintain customer records, effect securities transactions and prepare and file tax returns. In the event that there is an interruption to the systems due to internal systems failure or from an external threat, including terrorist attacks, fire and extreme weather conditions, the Company's ability to prepare and file tax returns and to process financial transactions could be affected. The Company has offsite backup, redundant and remote failsafe systems in place to safeguard against these threats but there can be no assurance that such systems will be effective to prevent malfunction and adverse effects on operation. The Company's industries are highly competitive; if it fails to remain competitive, the Company may lose customers and its results of operations would be adversely affected The financial planning and tax planning industries are highly competitive. If the Company's competitors create new products or technologies, or are able to take away its customers, the Company's results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company's competitors include companies specializing in income tax preparation as well as companies that provide general financial services. The Company's principal competitors are H&R Block and Jackson Hewitt in the tax preparation field and many well-known national brokerage and insurance firms in the financial services field, including Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. Many of these competitors have larger market shares and significantly greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with such competitors. Competition could cause the Company to lose existing clients, slow the growth rate of new clients and increase advertising expenditures, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or operating results. Competition from departing employees and the Company's ability to enforce contractual non-competition and non-solicitation provisions could adversely affect the Company's operating results If a large number of the Company's departing employees and financial planners were to enter into competition with the Company, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. Departing employees and financial planners may compete with the Company. Although the Company attempts to restrict such competition contractually, as a practical matter, enforcement of contractual provisions prohibiting small-scale competition by individuals is difficult. In the past, departing employees and financial planners have competed with the Company. They have the advantage of knowing the Company's methods and, in some cases, having access to the Company's clients. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to retain its most important employees and financial planners or that the Company will be able to prevent competition from them or successfully compete against them. If a substantial amount of such competition occurs, the corresponding reduction of revenue may materially adversely affect the Company's operating results. Departure of key personnel could adversely affect the Company's operations If any of the Company's key personnel were to leave its employ, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. The Company believes that its ability to successfully implement its business strategy and operate profitably depends on the continued employment of James Ciocia, its Chairman of the Board, Michael Ryan, its President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel Wieneke, its General Counsel, Kathryn Travis, its Secretary, Carole Enisman, its Executive Vice President of Operations, and Dennis Conroy, its Chief Accounting Officer. Michael Ryan and Carole Enisman are married. If any of these individuals become unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, the Company's business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The bankruptcy of a key director could adversely affect the confidence of potential investors in the Company's common stock On December 28, 2005, Stephen J. Gilbert, a director of the Company, filed a motion to convert his personal Chapter 11 case to a Chapter 7 case. The bankruptcy of a key director could adversely affect the confidence of potential investors of the Company's common stock. Tax return preparation malpractice and the Company's uninsured liability in such cases could materially adversely affect the Company's business and operating results The Company's business of preparing tax returns subjects it to potential civil liabilities for violations of the Internal Revenue Code or other regulations of the IRS, although the Company has never been assessed with material civil penalties or fines. If a Company violation resulted in a material fine or penalty, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company does not maintain any professional liability or malpractice insurance policies for tax preparation. PAGE 11 The Company has never been the subject of a material tax preparation malpractice lawsuit, however, the significant uninsured liability and the legal and other costs relating to such claims could materially adversely affect the Company's business and operating results. In addition, making fraudulent statements on a tax return, willfully delivering fraudulent documents to the IRS and unauthorized disclosure of taxpayer information can constitute criminal offenses. If the Company were to be charged with a criminal offense and found guilty, or if any of its employees or executives were convicted of a criminal offense, in addition to the costs of defense and possible fines, the Company would likely experience an adverse effect to its reputation, which could directly lead to a decrease in revenues from the loss of clients. The Company does not hire a large number of Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), which could affect the Company's ability to provide adequate IRS representation services to the marketplace. The Company utilizes a significant number of seasonal employees who are not CPAs or tax attorneys to provide tax preparation services. Under state law, the Company is not allowed to provide legal tax advice and the Company does not employ nor does it retain any tax attorneys on a full time basis. Because most of the Company's employees who prepare tax returns are not certified public accountants, tax attorneys or otherwise enrolled to practice before the IRS, such employees of the Company are strictly limited as to the roles they may take in assisting a client in an audit with the IRS. These limitations on services that the Company may provide could hinder the Company's ability to market its services. Furthermore, the small percentage of CPAs or tax attorneys available to provide assistance and guidance to the Company's tax preparers may increase the risk of the improper preparation of tax returns by the Company. The improper preparation of tax returns could result in significant defense expenses and civil liability. The loss of trademarks or other proprietary rights could cause the Company's revenues to decline If the Company were to lose its trademarks or other proprietary rights, the Company could suffer decreased revenues. The Company believes that its trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to its success and its competitive position. The Company has registered its "Gilman + Ciocia" trademark. However, the actions taken by the Company to establish and protect its trademarks and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of its services and products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by the Company. In addition, others may assert rights in the Company's trademarks and other proprietary rights. If the Company were to lose the exclusive right to its trademarks, its operations could be materially adversely affected. The decision not to pay dividends could impact the marketability of the Company's common stock The Company's decision not to pay dividends could negatively impact the marketability of the Company's common stock. Since its initial public offering of securities in 1994, the Company has not paid dividends and it does not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company currently intends to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the growth of the Company. It is very likely that dividends will not be distributed in the near future, which may reduce the marketability of the Company's common stock. The low trading volume of the Company's common stock increases volatility, which could impair the Company's ability to obtain equity financing Low trading volume in the Company's common stock increases volatility, which could result in the impairment of the Company's ability to obtain equity financing. As a result, historical market prices may not be indicative of market prices in the future. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuation. The Company's market price may be impacted by changes in earnings estimates by analysts, economic and other external factors and the seasonality of the Company's business. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of the common stock may adversely affect the stockholders' ability to buy and sell the common stock and the Company's ability to raise money in a future offering of common stock. The shares of the Company's common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ National Market in August 2002, and the market price of the Company's shares has dramatically declined since the delisting. The release of restricted common stock may have an adverse affect on the market price of the common stock The release of various restrictions on the possible future sale of the Company's Common Stock may have an adverse affect on the market price of the common stock. Based on information received from the Company's transfer agent, approximately 5.3 million shares of the common stock outstanding are "restricted securities" under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). PAGE 12 In general, under Rule 144, a person who has satisfied a one year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell, within any three month period, a number of shares of "restricted securities" that do not exceed the greater of one percent of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of such shares during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares of common stock by a person who is not an "affiliate" of the Company (as defined in Rule 144) and who has satisfied a two-year holding period, without any volume or other limitation. The general nature of the securities industry as well as its regulatory requirements could materially affect the Company's business If a material risk inherent to the securities industry was to be realized, the value of the Company's common stock may decline. The securities industry, by its very nature, is subject to numerous and substantial risks, including the risk of declines in price level and volume of transactions, losses resulting from the ownership, trading or underwriting of securities, risks associated with principal activities, the failure of counterparties to meet commitments, customer, employee or issuer fraud risk, litigation, customer claims alleging improper sales practices, errors and misconduct by brokers, traders and other employees and agents (including unauthorized transactions by brokers), and errors and failure in connection with the processing of securities transactions. Many of these risks may increase in periods of market volatility or reduced liquidity. In addition, the amount and profitability of activities in the securities industry are affected by many national and international factors, including economic and political conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, level and volatility of interest rates, legislative and regulatory changes, currency values, inflation, and the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, all of which are beyond the control of the Company. Several current trends are also affecting the securities industry, including increasing consolidation, increasing use of technology, increasing use of discount and online brokerage services, greater self-reliance of individual investors and greater investment in mutual funds. These trends could result in the Company facing increased competition from larger broker-dealers, a need for increased investment in technology, or potential loss of clients or reduction in commission income. These trends or future changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. If new regulations are imposed on the securities industry, the operating results of the Company may be adversely affected. The SEC, the NASD, the NYSE and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the protection of customers and maintenance of specified levels of net capital by broker-dealers. The regulatory environment in which the Company operates is subject to change. The Company may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, the NASD, other U.S. governmental regulators or SROs. The Company also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC, other federal and state governmental authorities and SROs. PCS is subject to periodic examination by the SEC, the NASD, SROs and various state authorities. PCS sales practice operations, recordkeeping, supervisory procedures and financial position may be reviewed during such examinations to determine if they comply with the rules and regulations designed to protect customers and protect the solvency of broker-dealers. Examinations may result in the issuance of letters to PCS, noting perceived deficiencies and requesting PCS to take corrective action. Deficiencies could lead to further investigation and the possible institution of administrative proceedings, which may result in the issuance of an order imposing sanctions upon PCS and/or their personnel. The Company's business may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to it as a financial market intermediary, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume and profitability of the Company's or its clients' trading activities in a specific period could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust policy and other governmental regulations and policies (including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board) and changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect the business and financial communities. The Company could be held liable to clients for misconduct alleged in civil proceedings causing operations to be adversely affected If the Company were to be found liable to clients for misconduct alleged in civil proceedings, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. Many aspects of the Company's business involve substantial risks of liability. There has been an increase in litigation and arbitration within the securities industry in recent years, including class-action suits seeking substantial damages. Broker-dealers such as PCS are subject to claims by dissatisfied clients, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, churning, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. Broker-dealers may be liable for the unauthorized acts of their retail brokers and independent contractors if they fail to adequately supervise their conduct. PCS is currently a defendant/respondent in numerous such proceedings. It should be noted, however, that PCS maintains securities broker-dealer's professional liability insurance to insure against this risk, but the insurance policy contains a deductible (presently $50,000) and a cumulative cap on coverage (presently $3,000,000). In addition, certain activities engaged in by brokers may not be covered by such insurance. The adverse resolution of any legal proceedings involving the Company could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. PAGE 13 The Company has a history of losses and may incur losses in the future The Company incurred losses in fiscal years 2005 and 2006 and expect to incur losses again in the future. As of June 30, 2006, the Company's accumulated deficit was $34.3 million. If the Company fails to become profitable, the value of your investment may not increase or may decline. System or network failures or breaches in connection with the Company's services and products could reduce its sales, impair its reputation, increase costs or result in liability claims, and seriously harm its business Any disruption to the Company's services and products, its own information systems or communications networks or those of third-party providers upon whom the Company relies as part of its own product offerings, including the Internet, could result in the inability of its customers to receive its products for an indeterminate period of time. The Company's services and products may not function properly for any of the following reasons: o System or network failure; o Interruption in the supply of power; o Virus proliferation; o Security breaches; o Earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster; or o An act of war or terrorism. Although the Company has made significant investments, both internally and with third-party providers, in redundant and back-up systems for some of its services and products, these systems may be insufficient or may fail and result in a disruption of availability of its products or services to its customers. Any disruption to the Company's services could impair its reputation and cause it to lose customers or revenue, or face litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating its business. 