Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC, in connection with evaluating the Company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may affect the Company. The occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. • The Company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the Company’s products. The Company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. In order to generate future revenues and profits, the Company must continue to sell products that appeal to the Company’s customers and consumers. Specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the Company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health and nutritional concerns. Continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the Company’s various markets and product lines could cause the Company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. Category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the Company is not successful in introducing new products. • The Company’s operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. The food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. The Company’s operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the Company’s and competitors’ 5 Table of Contents products. In the event of product contamination or tampering, the Company may need to recall some of its products. A widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. The Company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. Either a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the Company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the Company’s food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the Company’s brands, materially impacting consumer demand. • Certain of the Company’s products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. The Company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites. It is possible the Company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the Company’s products. Should the Company not be able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on the Company’s operations could result. • Impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of the Company’s assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a noncash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. At April 30, 2008, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.7 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $3.1 billion and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $1.8 billion. • The results of the Company may be adversely impacted as a result of limited availability and increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and fuel. The Company utilizes many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of its products including peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. In addition, natural gas and fuel oil are necessary components of the manufacturing process, packaging, and distribution of the Company’s products. These commodities and agricultural products are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Although the Company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures contracts to manage commodity prices in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the Company’s raw material and energy costs. The Company may be limited in its ability to pass these cost increases on in the form of price increases or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent pricing increases are taken. • The results of the Company may be adversely impacted by the growth in alternative energy markets. The Company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. As this industry grows, the supply of these particular raw materials may be limited. Additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the Company, may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the Company. 6 Table of Contents • The Company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. In addition, the loss of the Company’s largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 20 percent of the Company’s net sales in 2008. These sales are primarily included in the U.S. retail market segment. Trade receivables at April 30, 2008, included amounts due from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries of $34,210,000. During 2008, the Company’s top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 53 percent of consolidated net sales. The bankruptcy or loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact the Company’s operations. • Changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition. The Company’s operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, as well as similar and other authorities of Canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. The manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of food products is subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. Additionally, the Company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. The Company’s failure or inability to comply with these requirements could subject the Company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. • The results of the Company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its U.S. and Canadian employees. In addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the Company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. The Company’s obligations and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the Company’s financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. Changes in any of these assumptions, as well as changes in regulations governing these plans, can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expense, and future funding requirements. • The Company’s operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. The Company’s stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading North American food brands sold in the center of the store. The Company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and will continue to do so in the future in support of this strategy. The success of past and future acquisitions is dependent on the Company’s ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. If the Company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. Additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the Company entering a line of business in which it has no prior experience. 7 Table of Contents • The Folgers combination will expose the Company to risks inherent in the retail coffee business. On June 4, 2008, the Company entered into various agreements with The Procter & Gamble Company providing for the business combination of the Folgers coffee business (“Folgers”) and the Company in an all-stock reverse Morris Trust transaction. Upon completion of the transactions, Folgers will represent the Company’s largest single brand and the Company will be subject to a variety of risks associated with the coffee business. These risks include changes in consumer preferences, volatility in the prices of raw materials, the business’s reliance on a small number of key retail customers, consumer perceptions of the Folgers brand, competition in the retail coffee market, and other risks. • The integration of Folgers may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the transaction may not be realized. In addition to risks associated with the coffee business, the Company will also face the challenge of successfully integrating Folgers operations into its own. The integration process will require the Company to significantly expand the scope of its operations and financial systems. The Company’s management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the Company’s business and the coffee business. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. The Company may not be able to successfully or cost-effectively integrate the coffee business. The process of integrating the coffee business into the Company’s operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the Company’s business. If the Company’s management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the Company’s business could suffer and its results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Even if the Company is able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits that are currently expected to result from the transactions, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Folgers transaction may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. In addition, the benefits of the Folgers transaction may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity or energy prices, or in increased competition, or by other risks and uncertainties. If the Company fails to realize the benefits it anticipates from the Folgers transaction, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 