Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Economic Factors. Substantially all of the Company’s businesses, directly or indirectly, serve markets that were adversely impacted by recent global economic climate. Although improvement is expected, the timing of economic recovery in the markets we serve remains uncertain. A further downturn in one or more of our significant markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Because economic and market conditions vary within the Company’s business segments, the Company’s future performance by business segment will also vary. In addition, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Failure to successfully manage any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 7 Customer Access to Capital Funds. Uncertainty about current economic market conditions in the U.S. and globally poses risks that the Company’s customers may postpone spending for capital improvement and maintenance projects in response to tighter credit markets or negative financial news, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the Company’s products. The adverse effect of the credit experienced by the Emirate of Dubai has significantly decelerated construction activity both in the United Arab Emirates (“U.A.E.”) and across other Gulf Cooperation Council (“GCC”) countries, negatively impacting sales volume at the U.A.E. facility. International rapid growth. Potential international future rapid growth could place a significant strain on management, operations and financial systems as well as on the Company’s ability to attract and retain competent employees. Future operating results will depend in part on the Company’s ability to continue to implement and improve operating and financial controls and management information systems. Failure to effectively manage growth could materially adversely impact the business, financial conditions and results of operations. Changes in Government Policies and Laws, Worldwide Economic Conditions. International sales represent an increasing portion of the Company’s total sales and continued growth and profitability may involve further international expansion. The Company’s financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales. Government regulation. The demand for the Company’s leak detection and location systems and secondary containment piping systems is driven primarily by government regulation with respect to hazardous waste. Laws such as the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and standards such as the National Emission Standard for Hydrocarbon Airborne Particulates have increased the demand for the Company’s leak detection and location and secondary containment piping systems. The Company’s filtration products business, to a large extent, is dependent on governmental regulation of air pollution at the federal and state levels. The Company believes that continuing growth in the sale of filtration products and services will be materially dependent on continuing enforcement of environmental laws such as the Clean Air Act. Although changes in such environmental regulations could significantly alter the demand for the Company’s products and services, the Company does not believe such a change is likely to decrease demand in the foreseeable future. Financing. If there were an event of default under the Company’s current revolving credit facility, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. The Company cannot assure that the assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay amounts due under any of the financing arrangements, if accelerated upon an event of default, or, that the Company would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments under any such arrangements. Complying with the covenants under the Company’s revolving credit facility may limit management’s discretion by restricting options such as: · incurring additional debt; · entering into certain transactions with affiliates; · making investments or other restricted payments; · paying dividends or make other distributions; and · creating liens. Any additional financing the Company may obtain could contain similar or more restrictive covenants. The Company’s ability to comply with any covenants may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond management’s control. Competition. The businesses in which the Company is engaged are highly competitive. Many of the competitors are larger and have more resources than the Company. Additionally, many of the Company’s products are also subject to competition from alternative technologies and alternative products. To the extent the Company relies 8 upon a single source for key components of several of its products, the Company believes there are alternate sources available for such components; however, there can be no assurance that the interruption of supplies of such components would not have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company, and that the Company, if required to do so, would be able to negotiate agreements with alternative sources on acceptable terms. Backlog. The Company defines backlog as the revenue value in dollars attributed to confirmed customer purchase orders that have not yet been recognized as revenues. However, by industry practice, orders may be canceled or modified at any time. When a customer cancels an order, the customer is responsible for all finished goods, all direct and indirect costs incurred, and also for a reasonable allowance for anticipated profits. No assurance can be given that these amounts will be received after cancellation. Any cancellation or delay in orders may result in lower than expected revenues. Percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The Company measures and recognizes a portion of revenue and profits under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows revenue and profits to be recognized proportionally over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the cost incurred to date against the total amount of cost expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and total estimated cost is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. These revisions can occur at any time and could be material. On a historical basis, management believes that reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion on long-term contracts have been made. However, given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual cost to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits. Internal Controls. As a public company, the Company is required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (“SOX 404”). The Company’s failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject it to penalties under Federal securities laws, expose it to lawsuits and restrict its ability to access financing. If the Company fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of internal controls, and the Company, or its auditors, are unable to assert that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective, the Company could be subject to regulatory sanctions or lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the financial reports. In addition, the Company has experienced, and may experience, incremental costs of compliance with SOX 404. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 