1A. Risk Factors Competition. The businesses in which the Company is engaged are highly competitive. Many of the competitors are larger than the Company and have more resources. Many of the Company’s products are also subject to competition from alternative technologies and alternative products. To the extent the Company relies upon a single source for key components of several of its products, the Company believes there are alternate sources available for such components; however, there can be no assurance that the interruption of supplies of such components would not have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company, and that the Company, if required to do so, would be able to negotiate agreements with alternative sources on acceptable terms. Government Regulation. The demand for the Company’s leak detection and location systems and secondary containment piping systems is driven primarily by government regulation with respect to hazardous waste. Laws such as the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and standards such as the National Emission Standard for Hydrocarbon Airborne Particulates (“NESHAP”), have increased the demand for the Company’s leak detection and location and secondary containment piping systems. The Company’s filtration products business to a large extent is dependent on governmental regulation of air pollution at the federal and state levels. The Company believes that continuing growth in the sale of filtration products and services will be materially dependent on continuing enforcement of environmental laws such as the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (“Clean Air Act Amendments”). Although changes in such environmental regulations could significantly alter the demand for the Company’s products and services, the Company does not believe such a change is likely to decrease demand in the foreseeable future. Dividends. The Company has not paid dividends in the past and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company’s line of credit agreement contains certain restrictions on payment of dividends. 10 Changes in Government Policies and Laws, Worldwide Economic Conditions. International sales represent an increasing portion of the Company’s total sales and continued growth and profitability may involve further international expansion. The Company’s financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales. Economic Factors. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The Company monitors and manages currency exposures that are associated with monetary asset positions, committed currency purchases and sales, and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The Company measures and recognizes a portion of revenue and profits under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows revenue and profits to be recognized ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the cost incurred to date against the total amount of cost expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and total estimated cost is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. On a historical basis, management believes that reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion on long term contracts have been made. However, given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual cost to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits. Manufacturer’s warranties. The Company may be subject to warranty claims in the future relating to workmanship and materials. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, repair costs and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financing. If there were an event of default under our revolving credit facility, as amended, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately Seasonality. Due to the seasonality of the Company's domestic Piping Systems business, sales and earnings are typically lower during the late fall, winter and early spring (fourth and first quarters), due to unfavorable weather for construction over much of North America and are correspondingly higher during the late spring, summer and early fall months (second and third quarters). Internal Controls. As a public company, the Company is required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and is required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX 404”). Failure to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act or failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting as required in SOX 404 could result in a material weakness and the financial statements will be restated, as well as reduce investors’ confidence in the Company. If the Company fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of internal controls, management may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that there are effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with SOX 404. In addition, the Company has experienced, and may experience additional, increased costs of compliance with SOX 404. International rapid growth. Potential future rapid growth could place a significant strain on management, operations and financial systems as well as on the Company’s ability to attract and retain competent employees. Future operating results will depend in part on the Company’s ability to continue to implement and improve operating and financial controls and management information systems. Failure to effectively manage growth could materially adversely impact the business, financial conditions and results of operations. 11 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 