Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain private shareholders, including some Company directors and officers, control a substantial interest in the Company and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote On August 20, 2007, Michael Ryan (the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer), Carole Enisman (the Company's Executive Vice President of Operations), Ted Finkelstein (the Company's Vice President and General Counsel), Dennis Conroy, Prime Partners, Inc. and Prime Partners II, LLC (holding companies owned in part by Michael Ryan), Wynnefield Small Cap Value Offshore Fund, Ltd., Wynnefield Partners Small Cap Value, L.P., Wynnefield Partners Small Cap Value, L.P.I and WebFinancial Corporation entered into a shareholders agreement concerning the voting of their shares of Company stock. These shareholders own approximately 69.0% of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Pursuant to the shareholders agreement, these shareholders will have the ability to influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote, for example, the election of directors. See Note 22 to Notes to Consolidated Financials Statements for a discussion of the shareholder agreement. The Company's staggered board may entrench management and discourage unsolicited shareholder proposals that may be in the best interests of shareholders The Company's restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Company's board of directors is divided into three classes. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since the Company's "staggered board" would prevent the Company's shareholders from replacing a majority of the Company's board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited shareholder proposals that may be in the best interests of shareholders. Making and integrating acquisitions could impair the Company's operating results The Company's current strategy is to actively pursue acquisitions of tax preparation and accounting firms. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of the Company's ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; and the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. In paying for an acquisition, the Company may deplete its cash resources. Furthermore, there is the risk that the Company's valuation assumptions, customer retention expectations and its models for an acquired product or business may be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause the Company to overvalue an acquisition target. There is also the risk that the contemplated benefits of an acquisition may not materialize as planned or may not materialize within the time period or to the extent anticipated. PAGE 8 The Company's operations may be adversely affected if it is not able to expand its financial planning business by hiring additional financial planners and opening new offices If the financial planners that the Company presently employs or recruits do not perform successfully, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. The Company plans to continue to expand in the area of financial planning, by expanding the business of presently employed financial planners and by recruiting additional financial planners. The Company's revenue growth will in large part depend upon the expansion of existing business and the successful integration and profitability of the recruited financial planners. The Company's growth will also depend on the success of independent financial planners who are recruited to join the Company. The financial planning channel of the Company's business has generated an increasing portion of the Company's revenues during the past few years, and if such channel does not continue to be successful, the Company's revenue may not increase. The Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any adjustments that might result due the opening of new offices or from the uncertainties of a shift in the Company's business The Company may choose to open new offices. When the Company opens a new office, the Company incurs significant expenses to build out the office and to purchase furniture, equipment and supplies. The Company has found that a new office usually suffers a loss in its first year of operation, shows no material profit or loss in its second year of operation and does not attain profitability, if ever, until its third year of operation. Therefore, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected in any year that the Company opens a significant number of new offices. If the financial markets deteriorate, the Company's financial planning channel will suffer decreased revenues. The Company's revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity, which generally result in lower revenues from trading activities and commissions. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions as well as losses from declines in the market value of securities held in trading, investment and underwriting positions. In periods of low volume, the fixed nature of certain expenses, including salaries and benefits, computer hardware and software costs, communications expenses and office leases, will adversely affect profitability. Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities and the failure of issuers and counterparts to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets in which the Company may incur losses in its principal trading and market making activities. The Company's sale of 80,000,000 shares on August 20, 2007 significantly diluted the common stock ownership of existing shareholders The significant dilution of the common stock ownership of existing shareholders could have an adverse effect on the price of the shares and on the future volume of the shares traded. See Note 22 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete discussion of the stock sales. The listing of Company shares on the "grey sheets" could make trading the Company's shares difficult for investors The shares of the Company's common stock are traded on what is commonly referred to as the "grey sheets". As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. In addition, trading on the "grey sheets" could make trading the Company's shares difficult for investors. The Company is in full compliance with all SEC and NASDAQ requirements including SEC Rule 15c2-11. The low trading volume of the Company's common stock increases volatility, which could impair the Company's ability to obtain equity financing Low trading volume in the Company's common stock increases volatility, which could result in the impairment of the Company's ability to obtain equity financing. As a result, historical market prices may not be indicative of market prices in the future. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuation. The Company's market price may be impacted by changes in earnings estimates by analysts, economic and other external factors and the seasonality of the Company's business. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of the common stock may adversely affect the shareholders' ability to buy and sell the common stock and the Company's ability to raise money in a future offering of common stock. The results of the Company's review of whether there has been a Section 382 limitation on the use of its net operating loss carryovers imposed due to the equity transactions on August 20, 2007 could have a negative impact on its tax liability The Company's net operating loss carryovers of $19.0 million at June 30, 2007 expire generally from 2017 to 2027. As a result of the equity transactions described in Note 22 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is reviewing whether its ability to utilize its net operating loss carryovers may be restricted based on Internal Revenue Code Section 382 "changes in ownership." If the Company is unable to utilize its net operating loss carryovers, it would increase the Company's tax liability which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. PAGE 9 Changing laws and regulations have resulted in increased compliance costs for the Company, which could affect its operating results Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and newly enacted SEC regulations have created additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company intends to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. See Item 9A."Controls and Procedures." The expense and diversion of management attention which result from litigation could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results and could harm its ability to effectively manage its business If the Company were to be found liable to clients for misconduct alleged in civil proceedings, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. Many aspects of the Company's business involve substantial risks of liability. There has been an increase in litigation and arbitration within the Company's securities industry in recent years, including class action suits seeking substantial damages. Broker-dealers such as PCS are subject to claims by dissatisfied clients, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, churning, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. Broker-dealers may be liable for the unauthorized acts of their retail brokers and independent contractors if they fail to adequately supervise their conduct. PCS is currently a defendant/respondent in numerous such proceedings. PCS maintains securities broker-dealer's professional liability insurance to insure against this risk, but the insurance policy contains a deductible (presently $50,000) and a cumulative cap on coverage (presently $3,000,000). In addition, certain activities engaged in by brokers may not be covered by such insurance. The adverse resolution of any legal proceedings involving the Company could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. The outcome of the SEC investigation could have a material affect on the Company's operating results On September 6, 2005, the Company received an informal inquiry from the SEC regarding variable annuity sales by the Company's registered representatives during the period January 1, 2002 through August 1, 2005. On June 22, 2006, the SEC entered a formal order of investigation. The Company cannot predict whether or not the investigation will result in an enforcement action. Further, if there were an enforcement action, the Company cannot predict whether or not its operating results would be affected. Dependence on technology software and systems and the Company's inability to provide assurance that its systems will be effective could adversely affect the Company's operations As an information-financial services company with a subsidiary broker-dealer, the Company is greatly dependent on technology software and systems and on the internet to maintain customer records, effect securities transactions and prepare and file tax returns. In the event that there is an interruption to the Company's systems due to internal systems failure or from an external threat, including terrorist attacks, fire and extreme weather conditions, the Company's ability to prepare and file tax returns and to process financial transactions could be affected. The Company has offsite backup, redundant and remote failsafe systems in place to safeguard against these threats but there can be no assurance that such systems will be effective to prevent malfunction and adverse effects on operations. The Company's industries are highly competitive; if it fails to remain competitive, the Company may lose customers and its results of operations would be adversely affected The financial planning and tax planning industries are highly competitive. If the Company's competitors create new products or technologies, or are able to take away its customers, the Company's results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company's competitors include companies specializing in income tax preparation as well as companies that provide general financial services. The Company's principal competitors are H&R Block and Jackson Hewitt in the tax preparation field and many well-known national brokerage and insurance firms in the financial services field, including Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. Many of these competitors have larger market shares and significantly greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with such competitors. Competition could cause the Company to lose existing clients, impact the Company's ability to acquire new clients and increase advertising expenditures, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or operating results. PAGE 10 Additionally, federal and state governments may in the future become direct competitors to the Company's tax offerings. If federal and state governments provide their own software and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no charge it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal government has proposed legislation that could further this initiative. Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce the need for the Company's services as a third party tax return preparer Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as the Company because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time, government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns. The passage of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a third party tax return preparer could reduce demand for the Company's services, causing its revenues or profitability to decline. Changes in the tax law that result in a decreased number of tax returns filed or a reduced size of tax refunds could harm the Company's business From time to time, the United States Treasury Department and the IRS adopt policy and rule changes and other initiatives that result in a decrease in the number of tax returns filed or reduce the size of tax refunds. Similar changes in the tax law could reduce demand for the Company's services, causing its revenues or profitability to decline. The highly seasonal nature of the Company's business presents a number of financial risks and operational challenges which, if the Company fails to meet, could materially affect its business The Company's business is highly seasonal. The Company generates substantially all of its tax preparation revenues during tax season, which is the period from January 1 through April 30. The concentration of this revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of operational challenges for the Company including: (i) cash and resource management during the first eight months of its fiscal year, when the Company generally operates at a loss and incurs fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season; (ii) flexible staffing, because the number of employees at the Company's offices during the peak of tax season is much higher than at any other time; (iii) accurate forecasting of revenues and expenses; and (iv) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations during peak season, which is the period from late January through April. If the Company were unable to meet these challenges or was to experience significant business interruptions during tax season, which may be caused by labor shortages, systems failures, work stoppages, adverse weather or other events, many of which are beyond its control, the Company could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from departing employees and the Company's ability to enforce contractual non-competition and non-solicitation provisions could adversely affect the Company's operating results If a large number of the Company's employees and financial planners departed and began to compete with the Company, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. Although the Company attempts to restrict such competition contractually, as a practical matter, enforcement of contractual provisions prohibiting small-scale competition by individuals is difficult. In the past, departing employees and financial planners have competed with the Company. They have the advantage of knowing the Company's methods and, in some cases, having access to the Company's clients. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to retain its most important employees and financial planners or that the Company will be able to prevent competition from them or successfully compete against them. If a substantial amount of such competition occurs, the corresponding reduction of revenue may materially adversely affect the Company's operating results. Departure of key personnel could adversely affect the Company's operations If any of the Company's key personnel were to leave its employ, the Company's operations may be adversely affected. The Company believes that its ability to successfully implement its business strategy and operate profitably depends on the continued employment of James Ciocia, its Chairman of the Board, Michael Ryan, its President and Chief Executive Officer, Ted Finkelstein, its Vice President and General Counsel, Kathryn Travis, its Secretary, Carole Enisman, its Executive Vice President of Operations, and Karen Fisher, its Chief Accounting Officer. Michael Ryan and Carole Enisman are married. If any of these individuals become unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, the Company's business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. PAGE 11 The decision not to pay dividends could impact the marketability of the Company's common stock The Company's decision not to pay dividends could negatively impact the marketability of the Company's common stock. Since its initial public offering of securities in 1994, the Company has not paid dividends and it does not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company currently intends to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the growth of the Company The release of restricted common stock may have an adverse affect on the market price of the common stock The release of various restrictions on the possible future sale of the Company's common stock may have an adverse affect on the market price of the common stock. Based on information received from the Company's transfer agent, approximately 68.4 million shares of the common stock outstanding are "restricted securities" under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). In general, under Rule 144, a person who has satisfied a one year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell, within any three month period, a number of shares of "restricted securities" that do not exceed the greater of one percent of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of such shares during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares of common stock by a person who is not an "affiliate" of the Company (as defined in Rule 144) and who has satisfied a two-year holding period, without any volume or other limitation. The general nature of the securities industry as well as its regulatory requirements could materially affect the Company's business If a material risk inherent to the securities industry was to be realized, the value of the Company's common stock may decline. The securities industry, by its very nature, is subject to numerous and substantial risks, including the risk of declines in price level and volume of transactions, losses resulting from the ownership, trading or underwriting of securities, risks associated with principal activities, the failure of counterparties to meet commitments, customer, employee or issuer fraud risk, litigation, customer claims alleging improper sales practices, errors and misconduct by brokers, traders and other employees and agents (including unauthorized transactions by brokers), and errors and failure in connection with the processing of securities transactions. Many of these risks may increase in periods of market volatility or reduced liquidity. In addition, the amount and profitability of activities in the securities industry are affected by many national and international factors, including economic and political conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, level and volatility of interest rates, legislative and regulatory changes, currency values, inflation, and the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, all of which are beyond the control of the Company. Several current trends are also affecting the securities industry, including increasing consolidation, increasing use of technology, increasing use of discount and online brokerage services, greater self-reliance of individual investors and greater investment in mutual funds. These trends could result in the Company facing increased competition from larger broker-dealers, a need for increased investment in technology, or potential loss of clients or reduction in commission income. These trends or future changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. If new regulations are imposed on the securities industry, the operating results of the Company may be adversely affected. The SEC, FINRA, the NYSE and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the protection of customers and maintenance of specified levels of net capital by broker-dealers. The regulatory environment in which the Company operates is subject to change. The Company may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, FINRA, other U.S. governmental regulators or SROs. The Company also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC, other federal and state governmental authorities and SROs. PCS is subject to periodic examination by the SEC, FINRA, SROs and various state authorities. PCS sales practice, operations, recordkeeping, supervisory procedures and financial position may be reviewed during such examinations to determine if they comply with the rules and regulations designed to protect customers and protect the solvency of broker-dealers. Examinations may result in the issuance of letters to PCS, noting perceived deficiencies and requesting PCS to take corrective action. Deficiencies could lead to further investigation and the possible institution of administrative proceedings, which may result in the issuance of an order imposing sanctions upon PCS and/or their personnel. The Company's business may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to it as a financial market intermediary, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume and profitability of the Company's or its clients' trading activities in a specific period could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust policy and other governmental regulations and policies (including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board) and changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect the business and financial communities. PAGE 12 The Company has a history of losses and may incur losses in the future While, the Company reported a profit for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, the Company incurred losses in fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004 and may incur losses again in the future. As of June 30, 2007, the Company's accumulated deficit was $33.5 million. If the Company fails to continue to earn profits, the value of a shareholders investment may decline. System or network failures or breaches in connection with the Company's services and products could reduce its sales, impair its reputation, increase costs or result in liability claims, and seriously harm its business Any disruption to the Company's services and products, its own information systems or communications networks or those of third-party providers upon whom the Company relies as part of its own product offerings, including the internet, could result in the inability of its customers to receive its products for an indeterminate period of time. The Company's services may not function properly for any of the following reasons: o System or network failure; o Interruption in the supply of power; o Virus proliferation; o Security breaches; o Earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster; or o An act of war or terrorism. Although the Company has made significant investments, both internally and with third-party providers, in redundant and back-up systems for some of its services and products, these systems may be insufficient or may fail and result in a disruption of availability of its products or services to its customers. Any disruption to the Company's services could impair its reputation and cause it to lose customers or revenue, or face litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating its business. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect customers' personal information could result in significant fines and harm the Company's brand and reputation The Company manages highly sensitive client information in all of its operating segments, which is regulated by law. Problems with the safeguarding and proper use of this information could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely affect the Company's reputation and results of operations. 