Risk Factors,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Risk Items Relating to Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for additional discussion of these factors. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. Changes may occur after that date, and the Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements except as required by law in the normal course of its public disclosure practices. 1 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Great Lakes Aviation, Ltd. (Great Lakes or the Company) is a regional airline operating as an independent carrier and as a code share partner with United Air Lines, Inc. (United Air Lines or United) and Frontier Airlines, Inc. (Frontier Airlines or Frontier). As of February 28, 2006, the Company served 30 communities in nine states to and from Denver, Colorado, five destinations to and from Phoenix, Arizona and two destinations to and from Albuquerque, New Mexico. General information about the Company can be found at www.flygreatlakes.com. The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through the Company’s web site as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed such reports with, or furnished them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on the Company’s web site is not incorporated into, nor a part of, this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings. Essential Air Service Program The Company derived approximately 28% of its total revenue from the Essential Air Service program (EAS) in 2005, which is administered by the United States Department of Transportation (the DOT). The EAS program was instituted under the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (the Deregulation Act), which allowed airlines greater freedom to introduce, increase, and generally reduce or eliminate service to existing markets. Under the EAS program, certain communities are guaranteed specified levels of “essential air service.” In order to promote the provision of essential air services, the DOT may authorize the payment of federal subsidies in order to compensate an air carrier that is providing essential air services in otherwise unprofitable or minimally profitable markets. An airline serving a community that qualifies for essential air services is required to give the DOT advance notice before the airline may terminate, suspend, or reduce service. Depending on the circumstances, the DOT may require the continuation of existing service until a replacement carrier is found. EAS rates are normally set for two-year contract periods for each city. Significant fluctuations in passenger revenues, as well as fluctuations in fuel pricing and other costs, may cause EAS routes to become unprofitable during these two-year terms. At the end of the contract period for EAS service to a particular city, the DOT may request competitive proposals from other airlines. Proposals, when requested, are evaluated on, among other things, the level of service provided, the amount of subsidy requested, the fitness of the applicant, and comments from the communities served. For the federal fiscal year ended September 30, 2001, the EAS budgeted subsidy funding level for the entire program was $50 million. In recognition of the impact of the terrorist attacks of September 11, and the contractual obligation to provide a fixed level of service to EAS communities by carriers receiving subsidies, Congress authorized the DOT to increase subsidy rates to compensate for reduced passenger revenues and higher level of expenses. Congress set the EAS funding level at $113 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002, at $113 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003, at $102 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and 2005, and at $110 million for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. During 2004, the Company discontinued the provision of EAS service to the following communities: Huron, SD; Brookings, SD; Pueblo, CO; Vernal, UT; Moab, UT; and Norfolk, NE. During 2005, the Company commenced EAS service to the following communities: Show Low, AZ; Kingman, AZ; Prescott, AZ; Ponca City, OK; Enid, OK; Clovis City, NM; and Silver City, NM. As a result, the Company’s net EAS revenues increased to $21.9 million in 2005, from $20.8 million in 2004. At February 28, 2006, the Company served 28 EAS communities on a subsidized basis. 2 United Air Lines and Frontier Airlines Code Share Relationships United Air Lines. Prior to May 2001, the Company operated under the United Air Lines identity as a United Express carrier. Effective May 1, 2001, the Company and United ended the United Express relationship and entered into a code share agreement under which the Company placed the United Air Lines flight designator code on certain Great Lakes flights that connected with United flights in Chicago, Denver, Minneapolis and Phoenix. On December 9, 2002, United’s parent company, UAL, Inc., and its subsidiaries filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. At the same time, United obtained an order from the bankruptcy court that allowed, but did not require, United to perform under its executory contracts relating to interline agreements, including United’s code share agreement with the Company. In April 2003, the Company began negotiations with United to modify and extend the code share agreement beyond its original expiration date of April 30, 2004. On July 18, 2003, the Company and United executed an amendment to the code share agreement that formalized the on-going relationship between the two companies. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment to the code share agreement, the Company released its exclusive right to utilize the United Air Lines flight designator for five markets served by the Company with connecting service at United’s Denver hub. In exchange, certain code share restrictions, which had previously limited the Company’s ability to enter into code share and frequent flier programs with other airlines at the Denver hub, were removed. The Company and United also agreed on a payment structure for certain amounts owed by the Company to United. In addition, the amendment extended the term of the code share agreement through December 31, 2005 and, subject to the Company’s continued compliance with the code share agreement, United has conditionally agreed to further extend the term of the code share agreement through April 30, 2007. On February 1, 2006, United completed its restructuring and emerged from bankruptcy. The Company and United have continued to operate under the terms of their agreement, which expired on December 31, 2005, while they negotiate an ongoing agreement. Frontier Airlines. On May 3, 2001, the Company entered into a code share agreement with Frontier, which was implemented July 9, 2001. The Frontier agreement provides for the use of Frontier’s flight designator code on Great Lakes’ flights connecting with Frontier’s flights in Denver. Accordingly, certain flights to and from Denver carry both the United Air Lines and Frontier Airlines flight designator codes as well as the Great Lakes flight designator. The Company’s code share agreement with Frontier remains in effect until terminated by either party upon at least 180 days prior written notice to the other party. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with the Frontier code share agreement. Markets As of December 31, 2005, the Company operated 71 weekday departures daily from Denver, CO, ten departures daily from Phoenix, AZ and four departures daily from Albuquerque, NM. In 2004, as a result of EAS contracts expiring and or being awarded to other air carriers, the Company discontinued service to Minneapolis, MN; Pueblo, CO; Huron and Brookings, SD; and Vernal and Moab, UT. Service to Norfolk, NE was discontinued following termination of its eligibility for subsidy by the Department of Transportation. The Company also discontinued service to Rapid City, SD; Wichita, KS; and Casper, WY, which are not eligible for EAS subsidies. To offset the reduction of service realized in 2004, the Company actively pursued additional EAS markets and commenced service to Clovis and Silver City, NM, Enid and Ponca City, OK, and Kingman, Show Low, and 3 Prescott, AZ in the first and second quarters of 2005. The company commenced service to Sierra Vista, AZ in the first quarter of 2005 under a DOT Small Community Air Service Development program initiated by the Arizona Department of Transportation. The Company provided enhanced service to Gillette, Riverton and Rock Springs, WY on a subsidized basis under the Wyoming Department of Transportation Air Enhancement Fund. The Company’s route map is as follows: Marketing The Company’s services are marketed primarily by means of the Company’s internet web site, from listings in other computerized reservation systems, and through direct contact with travel agencies and corporate travel departments. The Company’s promotional programs emphasize the Company’s close affiliation with its code share partners and, in particular, the opportunity for the Company’s passengers to participate in related customer service benefits such as a frequent flyer program. 4 Yield Management The Company closely monitors its inventory and pricing of available seats with yield management systems. These systems enable the Company’s revenue control analysts to examine the Company’s past traffic and pricing trends, and to estimate the optimal number of seats made available for sale at various fares. The analysts then monitor each flight to adjust seat allocations and booking levels, with the objective of maximizing the total revenue for each flight. Charter and Freight Service The Company uses its Beechcraft and Embraer Brasilia aircraft to provide charter services to private individuals, corporations, and athletic teams and leases two Beechcraft to another carrier. The Company also carries freight, and small packages on most of its scheduled flights. Revenues from the Company’s leases, charter flights and freight air service were 1.6%, 1.4%, and 2.6% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Seasonality Historically, the Company has experienced lower passenger volumes during the months of November through April (the non-peak season). This seasonality can be attributed primarily to relatively difficult winter weather operating conditions in the Company’s principal area of operations, resulting in fewer vacations and other discretionary trips. The Company also experiences reduced business travel during the non-peak season. These seasonal factors have generally resulted in reduced revenues, increased operating losses, and reduced cash flow for the Company during the non-peak season. Competition The Company competes for passenger traffic primarily with regional and major air carriers and ground transportation. The Company may also compete with other regional/small air carriers to provide EAS and receive subsidies for providing air service to small communities. The Company’s competition from other air carriers varies from location to location and, in certain areas, comes from regional and major carriers who serve the same destinations as the Company, but through different hub and spoke systems. The domestic airline industry has undergone major structural changes since the enactment of the Deregulation Act. Deregulation has made possible the rapid entry of competitors into the Company’s markets, and competitors are able to adjust fares rapidly to improve their competitive position. The Company could experience increased competition from existing competitors or from new entrants on one or more of the Company’s routes. Almost all markets served by the Company are subject to a high degree of price competition, both from established carriers and low fare jet carriers. However, the Company believes that its ability to compete in its market areas is strengthened by its code share relationships with United and Frontier. The Company competes with other airlines by offering frequent flights, flexible schedules, and competitive fares. Aircraft As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s fleet consisted of 25 Beechcraft Model 1900D 19-passenger aircraft and six Embraer Brasilia Model 120 30-passenger aircraft. Beechcraft Aircraft. The Beechcraft 1900D aircraft are pressurized, radar equipped, and offer a 300-mile per hour cruising speed for 19 passengers, plus cargo, with a range of 850 miles. The Beechcraft 1900D aircraft is widely regarded by airlines as an efficient and reliable aircraft for regional service. 5 At the beginning of 2001 the Company operated 37 Beechcraft 1900D aircraft. Because of the reduction in demand for air service following the events of September 11, 2001, the Company decided to retire seven of its Beechcraft 1900D aircraft and began negotiations for returning the surplus aircraft. The Company returned four of the owned Beechcraft 1900D aircraft to Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation (Raytheon) during 2003 and the remaining two owned and one leased Beechcraft 1900D aircraft during 2004. The Company returned an additional five of the owned Beechcraft 1900D aircraft during 2005. Embraer Brasilia Aircraft. The 30-passenger Embraer Brasilia aircraft are equipped with advanced avionics, have restrooms, are staffed with a flight attendant, and offer a 330-mile per hour cruising speed with a range of 750 miles. In November 2003, the lease for one Embraer Brasilia aircraft expired. The Embraer Brasilia aircraft under the expired lease was returned to the lessor in January 2004. At December 31, 2005, four of the Company’s six Embraer Brasilia aircraft were in scheduled service. A summary of the Company’s operating aircraft as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is as follows: 2005 2004 Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Owned 25 4 30 4 Operating leases — 2 — 2 25 6 30 6 Leased to another carrier (2 ) — — — Available for operations 23 6 30 6 As of December 31, 2005, the average age of the Company’s aircraft was approximately 11 years and as of December 31, 2004, the average age of the Company’s aircraft was approximately ten years. Maintenance The Federal Aviation Administration (the FAA) mandates periodic inspection and maintenance of commercial aircraft. The Company performs most of the maintenance and inspection of its aircraft and engines (except engine overhaul) using its own personnel. Heavy maintenance bases are located at Cheyenne, Wyoming and Grand Island, Nebraska. Line maintenance is also performed in Denver, Colorado and Phoenix, Arizona. Parts and supplies inventories are maintained at these locations to promote the mechanical dispatch reliability of the fleet. The Company also maintains an inventory of spare engines and propellers for its fleet to allow for minimal downtime during major overhauls. The Company internally performs overhaul of selected aircraft components for its fleet. As part of the Company’s Restructuring Agreement with Raytheon, dated as of December 31, 2002 (the Restructuring Agreement), (see Liquidity and Financing below), in April 2004, the Company entered into a five-year Term Cost PlanTM Agreement (the FMP Contract) with Pratt & Whitney Canada Corp. (P&WC) under which P&WC supplies the Company with certain engine maintenance services under a Fleet Management Program.TM The Company entered into the FMP Contract to comply with certain aircraft maintenance requirements that are set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. Under the terms of the FMP Contract, the engines for the Company’s Beechcraft 1900D aircraft are being overhauled over the first two and one-half years of the FMP Contract and maintained for the five-year term of the FMP Contract. Monthly amounts to be paid by the Company are based on the total number of Beechcraft 1900D engine operating hours at a fixed contractual rate. Because of the reduction in number of operating aircraft and related engines the Company and P&WC are renegotiating the terms of the FMP Contract. 6 Fuel The Company has not experienced difficulty with fuel availability and expects to continue to be able to obtain fuel in quantities sufficient to meet its future requirements. The Company contracts directly with refiners for the purchase of a portion of its aircraft fuel requirements. However, standard industry contracts generally do not provide protection against fuel price increases and do not ensure availability of supply. Accordingly, an increase in the cost of fuel, if not accompanied by an equivalent increase in passenger revenues or subsidies, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future operating results. During 2005, the Company’s average price of fuel, including taxes and plane service fees, was $2.13 per gallon, as compared to $1.56 in 2004 and $1.23 in 2003. At current rates of consumption, a one cent increase or decrease in the per gallon price of fuel will increase or decrease the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $83,000 annually. Liquidity and Financing Beginning in 2001, the airline industry suffered substantial declines in revenue as demand for air service fell due to a variety of factors, including terrorism and general economic trends. As a result, the Company, like most air carriers, incurred substantial losses during 2001 and 2002. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had exhausted its available sources of working capital and was in arrears in payments to almost all the institutions providing lease or debt financing for the Company’s aircraft. On December 31, 2002, the Company entered into the Restructuring Agreement, which enabled the Company to substantially reduce its outstanding debt and lease debt obligations to Raytheon, reduce the Company’s monthly debt and lease payments, and return surplus aircraft. The Company plans to seek additional permanent capital, when feasible. However, it is unlikely that such additional capital will be available until the Company and the airline industry appear capable of returning to a continuing level of profitability. If the Company is unable to generate adequate funding through either improved financial performance or a combination of additional financing and further settlements with creditors, the Company may be required to make further reductions in operating levels and develop other alternatives to provide sufficient operating funds. No assurances can be made that the Company will be successful in finding financing alternatives or that the Company’s creditors will not impose conditions that result in a further corporate restructuring or a cessation of operations. Starting in 2004, the Company explored ways of reducing the size of its Beechcraft 1900D fleet as part of its ongoing evaluation of aircraft requirements. In partial furtherance of this goal, the Company leased two Beechcraft 1900D aircraft to another airline in February 2005. On April 25, 2005, Raytheon notified the Company that due to the Company’s current defaults, it intended to reduce its exposure by requiring the Company to return five Beechcraft 1900D aircraft to Raytheon. The Company returned one aircraft in June 2005, returned one aircraft in July 2005, returned two aircraft in August 2005, and returned one aircraft in September 2005. Upon the return of each aircraft, Raytheon released the Company from all future obligations including past due principal under the related financing provided by Raytheon on each such aircraft. The Company remains obligated to pay Raytheon past due interest obligations on the five aircraft. The Company increased the utilization of its Embraer EMB-120ER fleet concurrent with the reduction in the Beechcraft 1900D. During 2004, the Company made all scheduled payments to Raytheon. During 2003 and 2005, the Company did not make scheduled payments of approximately $4.5 million and $4.1 million, respectively. The Company anticipates amending its agreement with Raytheon to provide for payment of missed payments in 2003 and 2005 in future periods. 7 Currently, the Company is in arrears and is negotiating with creditors that have provided financing for the Company’s Brasilia aircraft to restructure the Company’s remaining debt and lease obligations. The Company has informal agreements with these aircraft creditors to make reduced payments while negotiating revised payment schedules which will be based on current cash flows. On April 27, 2005, Boeing Capital Corporation (Boeing) gave the Company a notice of default under its lease agreements pursuant to which the Company leases two Embraer EMB-120ER aircraft, and directed the Company to pay, within five days, all amounts currently owing under those agreements. The notice stated that failure to do so would cause Boeing to exercise other rights. Boeing could cause the aircraft to be sold and demand payment for any past due rentals, penalties, and the difference between the stipulated loss value, as determined in the lease, and the sale proceeds of the aircraft. At April 27, 2005, the total amount due under the leases, including installments and penalty interest, was $7.5 million. At December 31, 2005, the total amount due under the leases, including installments and penalty interest, was $8.6 million. The Company is negotiating with Boeing regarding revised terms of repayment for these outstanding lease obligations. The Company continues to be in arrears with respect to almost all of the Company’s aircraft debt and lease obligations. Furthermore, the Company cannot determine with a high degree of confidence that it will be able during 2006 to generate sufficient cash flows in order to make payments that become due in 2006 or regain compliance with its aircraft debt and lease agreements. Therefore, the amount of long-term debt that would otherwise be due after one year is shown on the Company’s balance sheet as long-term obligations classified as current. As long as the Company remains in default under its basic debt agreement, Raytheon could, among other things, declare all unpaid principal and interest immediately due and payable and take possession of all the Beechcraft 1900D aircraft, one Embraer EMB-120ER aircraft, and other assets of the Company. Boeing could terminate the leases on two Embraer EMB-120ER aircraft and take legal action to recover the past due lease installments and related interest, as well as the stipulated value of the aircraft. CIT Group could declare debt obligations due to it from the Company in default and seek to recover amounts the Company owes by the sale of the three owned Embraer EMB-120ER aircraft that collateralize its debt. Since entering into the Restructuring Agreement, the Company has been in continual negotiations with Raytheon, its principal aircraft creditor, to recognize changes in fare levels, competition, and the changing strategies of its code sharing partners. Discussions with Raytheon have included proposed modifications of the schedule of debt payments to reflect seasonal cash flows and the return of aircraft that have become surplus to the Company’s operations. The Company continues to negotiate with Raytheon, Boeing, CIT Group, and FINOVA to assure availability of sufficient aircraft and spare engines and to achieve a restructuring of its obligations consistent with reasonably expected future cash flows. The Company does not know whether it will be successful in such negotiations or whether the terms of any restructuring will permit continued operations at the current level. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared under the assumption that the Company will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result if the Company were forced to discontinue operations. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company had liabilities in excess of assets at December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 and was in arrears on payments to its long term debt holders at December 31, 2005. The report of independent registered public accounting firm dated March 30, 2006 on the Company’s financial statements states that these matters raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 8 Restructuring Agreement with Raytheon On December 31, 2002, the Company entered into a Restructuring Agreement with Raytheon regarding lease and debt financing provided by Raytheon for the Company’s Beechcraft 1900C and Beechcraft 1900D aircraft fleet. In addition, the Restructuring Agreement provided for the return of certain aircraft to Raytheon in exchange for the extinguishment of outstanding debt and lease liabilities associated with such aircraft. Return of Beechcraft 1900D Aircraft. The Company agreed to return seven Beechcraft 1900D aircraft to Raytheon during 2003 in exchange for the cancellation and extinguishment of one operating lease and six promissory notes. During 2003, the Company returned four Beechcraft 1900D aircraft, with a net book value of $9.9 million, in exchange for the cancellation and extinguishment of four promissory notes. As a result, by the end of 2003, the Company had reduced its outstanding aircraft debt and accrued interest by $13.6 million and recorded net gains from extinguishment of debt in the amount of $3.7 million. Starting in 2004, the Company explored ways of reducing the size of its Beechcraft 1900D fleet as part of its ongoing evaluation of aircraft requirements. In partial furtherance of this goal, the Company leased two Beechcraft 1900D aircraft to another airline in February 2005. During the first six months of 2004, the Company returned two owned Beechcraft 1900D aircraft to Raytheon, with a net book value of $4.8 million, in exchange for the cancellation and extinguishment of two promissory notes. As a result, the Company reduced its outstanding aircraft debt and accrued interest by $7.7 million. The Company also returned the one leased Beechcraft 1900D aircraft during 2004 for the cancellation and extinguishment of outstanding operating lease obligations. The Company was responsible for costs of repair and refurbishment in order to satisfy the aircraft return conditions that are set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. During the first quarter of 2004, the Company executed an Engine Overhaul Note (the Engine Note), which sets forth the terms for repayment of such costs. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2004, the Company recognized an expense of $2.1 million for such expenditures. The return of these aircraft resulted in a reduction of the net book value of its owned aircraft by approximately $5.6 million, reduced its outstanding aircraft debt and lease liabilities by $8.7 million, and recorded gains from extinguishment of debt related to the two owned 1900D aircraft of $3.6 million and recorded gains on cancelled lease obligations of $0.7 million for a total recorded gain of approximately $4.3 million. On April 25, 2005, Raytheon notified the Company that due to the Company’s current defaults, it intended to reduce its exposure by requiring the Company to return five Beechcraft 1900D aircraft. The Company returned one aircraft in June 2005, returned one aircraft in July 2005, returned two aircraft in August 2005, and returned one aircraft in September 2005 in exchange for the cancellation and extinguishment of five promissory notes. As a result, the Company reduced the net book value of its owned aircraft by $12.3 million, reduced its outstanding aircraft debt and accrued interest by $12.9 million, and recorded gains on cancellation of debt obligations of $0.6 million. Upon the return of each aircraft, Raytheon released the Company from all future obligations including past due principal under the related financing. The Company remains obligated to pay Raytheon past due interest obligations of $0.5 million on the five aircraft. Refinancing of Aircraft Debt. On December 31, 2002, the Company restructured its financing for 30 of the Company’s Beechcraft 1900D aircraft by executing new and amended promissory notes that are secured by the aircraft (the Aircraft Debt). In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 15, Accounting by Debtors and Creditors for Troubled Debt Restructurings (SFAS 15), the Company has accounted for the restructuring of this Aircraft Debt as a troubled debt restructuring. SFAS 15 states that, in a troubled debt restructuring, the debtor shall not reduce the carrying amount of the existing debt on the debtor’s books unless the carrying amount of the existing debt exceeds the total future cash payments of the new debt under the restructured terms. The effects of any changes in the face amount or interest rate must be amortized in future periods by reducing interest expense to an effective interest rate that equates the net present value of the future cash payments under the terms of the restructured debt to the carrying value on the debtor’s books. 9 At December 31, 2002, the outstanding principal of the Aircraft Debt was $75 million, while the total future cash flows for the 30 Aircraft Debt promissory notes was estimated to be $95.7 million. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 15, the Company recorded the Aircraft Debt on its books in the amount of $95.7 million. The $20.7 million difference (the Aircraft Debt SFAS 15 Amount) between the $95.7 million carrying value of the Aircraft Debt and the $75 million principal amount of the Aircraft Debt is being amortized as a reduction to the Company’s interest expense over the ten-year term of the Aircraft Debt. During 2005 and 2004, the Company made principal payments of $2.8 million and $5.3 million, respectively, on the Aircraft Debt. In addition, the Company made payments of interest in the amount of $2.7 million and $3.4 million, in 2005 and 2004 respectively. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the outstanding principal amount of the Aircraft Debt was $53.2 million and $66.9 million, respectively, while the carrying value of the Aircraft Debt on the Company’s books (which includes the current balance of the Aircraft Debt SFAS 15 Amount) was $61.9 million and $80.2 million. The five Beechcraft 1900Ds returned during 2005 resulted in a reduction of principal of $10.9 million and SFAS 15 reductions of $2.0 million on the Company’s books. During 2005, amortization of SFAS 15 on the Company’s books reduced principal by $2.7 million. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in arrears on payments of principal and interest for the Aircraft Debt in the amount of $8.6 million and was not in compliance with certain other covenants contained in the Restructuring Agreement. Modification of Beechcraft 1900C Aircraft Operating Leases. The Restructuring Agreement reduced the monthly lease payments for the two Beechcraft 1900C aircraft operating leases. In addition, $384,000 of unpaid lease payments on the two leases was contractually extinguished. However, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases, the Company retained the $384,000 liability on the Company’s books and had been amortizing the liability amount over the remaining terms of the leases with the remaining balance recognized as a gain on the return of the two aircraft in 2004. The Company returned the two aircraft during the second quarter of 2004, at which time the leases terminated and the Company wrote off the remaining lease liability. Other Non-Aircraft Debt. Under the Restructuring Agreement, the outstanding principal and accrued interest amounts on various non-aircraft debt was restructured into new promissory notes (the Non-Aircraft Debt) with a combined total principal amount of $11.5 million and a carrying value on the Company’s books, in accordance with SFAS 15, of $12.8 million. During the first quarter of 2004, the Company executed the Engine Note, which sets forth the terms for payment of a $2.3 million liability to satisfy aircraft return conditions. During 2005, the Company made principal payments of $0.7 million on the Non-Aircraft Debt and increased the outstanding principal balance by deferred interest in the amount of $0.1 million. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the carrying value of the Non-Aircraft Debt on the Company’s books was $13.5 and $14.1 million, respectively, while the outstanding principal amount of the Non-Aircraft Debt was $13.3 million and $13.7 million, respectively. Equity Interest and Board of Director Observer Rights. As further consideration for the concessions granted by Raytheon in the Restructuring Agreement, the Company issued 5,371,980 shares of the Company’s common stock to Raytheon, representing an approximate 38.2% interest in the Company’s then outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, the Company granted Raytheon observer rights for meetings of the Company’s Board of Directors, but without any right to vote or enter into any discussions at any Board of Directors meetings. Registration Rights. The Restructuring Agreement required the Company to file a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in order to permit Raytheon to resell the shares of Company Common Stock issued to Raytheon. As of the date of this report, the shelf registration statement has not been filed. 10 Independent Directors. The Company was required to appoint two independent directors unaffiliated with either the Company or Raytheon. This was completed by September 26, 2005. Mandatory Prepayments. The Company is required to prepay amounts outstanding under the Company’s notes held by Raytheon in an amount equal to 50% of the “excess cash flow” for that fiscal year. “Excess cash flow” means cash flow from the Company’s operations, less (a) capital expenditures, (b) payments of funded indebtedness for or made during such fiscal year, and (c) $250,000. During the fiscal year 2005, the Company did not have excess cash flows and was not required to make mandatory prepayments. Ongoing Compliance. The debt payments to be made under the Restructuring Agreement were closely aligned with the Company’s forecasted cash flows at the time the Restructuring Agreement was negotiated. During 2003 and 2005, shortfalls from forecasted cash flows resulted in the Company’s inability to make the scheduled payments. The Company has informal agreements with Raytheon to make reduced payments while negotiating revised payment schedules which will be based on current cash flows. At December 31, 2005, the Company was current with payments under these informal agreements. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company continued to make reduced payments to Raytheon because of its limited cash availability. In addition, there are significant uncertainties regarding the Company’s ability to achieve sufficient cash flows in the future due to a variety of factors beyond the Company’s control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the ability of United Air Lines’ to achieve financial viability after exiting Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, the volatility of fuel prices, reduced passenger demand, continued political and economic instability in Iraq and the Middle East, continued participation in and potential changes under the EAS program, and general economic conditions. At December 31, 2005, the Company was in arrears with respect to almost all of the Company’s aircraft debt and lease obligations. The Company cannot determine with a high degree of confidence that it will be able to generate sufficient cash flows during 2006 in order to make the required payments or become in compliance with its aircraft debt and lease agreements. Therefore, the amounts of long-term debt that would otherwise be due after one year are reflected on the Company’s balance sheets as long-term obligations classified as current. In addition to the contractual amounts due the lenders, the amount of long-term debt classified as current includes $6.7 million of additional carrying amounts under SFAS 15. The company has not been granted a waiver of the foregoing defaults. Other Financing Boeing Capital Corporation. The Company leases two of the Company’s Embraer Brasilia aircraft from Boeing Capital Corporation (Boeing). At December 31, 2005, the Company was in arrears on its obligations under these leases in the amount of $7.3 million. The Company has also recorded a liability to Boeing in the amount of $1.3 million for accrued penalty interest on the missed lease payments. The Company is engaged in ongoing negotiations with Boeing with respect to the Company’s default under the terms of the aircraft lease agreements. CIT. At December 31, 2002, Great Lakes had three notes payable to CIT Aerospace, formerly The CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. (CIT), for the financing of three of the Company’s Embraer Brasilia aircraft. The three notes, with a combined outstanding principal amount of $5.0 million, were payable at interest rates ranging from 8.70% to 9.08%. In April 2003, the Company executed an amended note that combined the three notes and modified the terms to provide for reduced monthly payments at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points. The amended note will mature in December 2007. As of December 31, 2005, the principal balance on the amended note was $3.4 million, and the Company was in arrears on payments of principal on the amended note in the amount of $1.1 million and interest of $0.1 million. FINOVA. In August 2002, the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement with FINOVA Capital Corporation (FINOVA), whereby the Company agreed to pay to FINOVA a total of $0.7 million, with interest at 10%, over a period of 48 months in settlement of amounts owed by the Company on the return of one leased Embraer Brasilia aircraft. During 2005, the Company was current on all payments of principal and interest under that agreement, resulting in an outstanding principal balance of $0.1 million as of December 31, 2005. 11 In November 2002, the Company entered into a Deferral Agreement with FINOVA with respect to a second leased Embraer Brasilia aircraft, whereby the Company agreed to pay reduced lease payments through the end of the aircraft lease. The lease terminated on November 1, 2003, and the Company returned the second Embraer Brasilia aircraft to FINOVA in January 2004. The Company was responsible for costs of repair and refurbishment in order to satisfy the aircraft return conditions in the lease agreement. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2004, the Company had recognized a liability of $0.2 million for such expenditures. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, the Company had accrued lease payments, together with accrued penalty interest, in the amount of $1.3 million with respect to the second aircraft lease. FINOVA and the Company have agreed to negotiate a settlement of amounts due under the aircraft lease agreement and for any deficiencies in the operating condition of the second returned aircraft. Transportation Security Administration. At June 30, 2004, the Company was obligated to the Transportation Security Administration for $2.5 million, representing collections from passengers for security fees and amounts due from the Company for aviation security infrastructure fees. On August 11, 2004, the Company restructured this obligation into a note that requires the Company to pay the amount owed in 36 monthly payments beginning in August 2004. At December 31, 2005, the Company was current on this obligation. Employees At March 1, 2006, the Company had 557 full-time and 269 part-time active employees, as compared to 541 full-time and 214 part-time active employees at February 22, 2005, as follows: March 1,2006 February 22,2005 Classification Pilots 188 172 Station personnel 398 361 Maintenance personnel 133 127 Administrative and clerical personnel 70 69 Flight attendants 20 10 Management 17 16 Total employees 826 755 The Company’s pilots are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. The Company’s agreement with the pilots became amendable October 30, 2000, and the Company and the union are negotiating to achieve an agreement. The members of the union have authorized a strike at some future date if an agreement is not reached. Before any work stoppage can occur, the Federal Mediation Board must release the participants to self-help, followed by a 30-day cooling off period. The Company anticipates entering binding arbitration with the pilots. The Company’s flight attendants are also represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the Company’s agreement with the flight attendants became amendable April 1, 2002. Negotiations with the flight attendants are active at the present time. 12 The Company’s mechanics and maintenance clerks are represented by the International Association of Machinists. The Company’s agreement with the mechanics became amendable November 1, 2005, and the Company’s agreement with the maintenance clerks became amendable March 1, 2002. Negotiations with the mechanics and maintenance clerks are inactive at the present time. In 2003, the Company’s dispatchers voted to be represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. As of February 28, 2006, the Company and the dispatchers were in active negotiations for an initial labor agreement. Regulation In accordance with the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (the 1958 Act), the Company is an air carrier subject to regulation by the DOT, primarily with respect to economic matters. As a commuter air carrier, the Company is licensed under Part 298 of the Economic Regulations of the DOT. The Company holds an air carrier operating certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) pursuant to Part 121 of the FAA’s regulations. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires that an airline obtain an operating certificate and operations specifications for each particular aircraft and type of operations conducted by the carrier, all of which are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. As a result, the Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to the Company’s operations, aircraft maintenance, and safety related matters, including, but not limited to, equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, training, weather observation, flight personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The Deregulation Act eliminated many regulatory constraints so that airlines became free to set fares and, with limited exceptions, to establish domestic routes without the necessity of seeking government approval. The DOT is still authorized to establish consumer protection regulations in order to prohibit certain pricing practices; mandate conditions of carriage; and make ongoing determinations of a carrier’s fitness, willingness, and ability to properly and lawfully provide air transportation. The DOT also has the power to bring proceedings to enforce its regulations under the 1958 Act and seek penalties, including the assessment of civil penalties, the revocation of operating authority, and criminal sanctions. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act requires the adoption of certain security measures by airlines and airports, including the screening of passengers and baggage. The security measures are being partially funded by a $2.50 per flight segment tax on tickets. The Company is responsible for certain security costs above this level. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission regarding the use of the Company’s radio facilities. In addition, local governments and authorities in certain markets have adopted regulations governing various aspects of aircraft operations, including noise abatement, curfews, and use of airport facilities. The Company believes that it is in compliance with all such regulations. Insurance The Company carries the types and amounts of insurance that are required by the DOT and are customary in the regional airline industry, including coverage for public liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability, and workers’ compensation. As a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, aviation insurers have significantly increased premiums for all aviation coverage while dramatically reducing the amount of coverage available for war-risk occurrences. In response to the reduction in coverage, the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (the Stabilization Act) provided U.S. air carriers with the option to purchase certain war-risk liability insurance from the United States government on an interim basis at rates that are more favorable than those available in the private market. The Company has purchased this coverage and anticipates renewing it for as long as the coverage is available from the 13 United States government. The airlines and insurance industries, together with the United States and other governments, are continuing to evaluate both the cost and options for providing coverage of aviation insurance. The Company anticipates that it will follow industry practices with respect to sources of insurance. The Company believes that its insurance is adequate as to amounts and risks covered. There can be no assurance, however, that the limits of the Company’s insurance will be sufficient to cover any catastrophic loss. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial Condition of the Company As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company had liabilities in excess of assets at December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 and was in arrears on its debt and lease obligations as of December 31, 2005. As a result, continued operating losses in future years could negatively impact the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Defaults Under Financing Agreements At December 31, 2005, the Company was in arrears with respect to almost all of the Company’s aircraft debt and lease obligations. As a result, a creditor could declare the Company in default and demand immediate payment of all amounts owed by the Company to the creditor, which could cause the Company to go into involuntary bankruptcy. Dependence on Relationship with United Air Lines Currently, the Company estimates that approximately 46% of Great Lakes’ passenger traffic connects with United Air Lines flights. As a result of the Company’s relationship with United Air Lines, the Company’s business is sensitive to events and risks affecting United. If adverse events affect United’s business, the Company’s business could also be adversely affected. Such events include the ability of United Airlines’ to achieve financial viability after exiting Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, changes in United’s business plan or model, employee strikes or job actions, significant curtailment of services, and terrorist events. However, to the extent that the Company is successful in developing both its own identity on its operating system and its code share relationship with Frontier Airlines, the Company will reduce its dependence on United Air Lines and mitigate the effects of any adverse events that are related solely to United Air Lines. Terrorist Events The Company is sensitive to changes in the economy and airline industry that are the result of, or related to, past and future terrorist attacks. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the impact of additional airline and security charges on Company costs, reduced customer demand for travel, the cost and availability of war-risk and other aviation insurance (including the federal government’s provision of third party war-risk coverage), and the possibility of additional terrorist events that could cause further customer aversion to air travel. War War or other military action by the United States of America or other countries could have a significant effect on passenger traffic. Dependence on Essential Air Service Revenues In 2005, 28% of the Company’s revenues were received as EAS subsidies. EAS subsidies are expected to remain a significant portion of the Company’s revenues in 2006 and future years. Changes in DOT policies with regard to 14 payment of subsidies and any reduction or loss of subsidies could have a substantial negative impact on the Company. The DOT awards EAS contracts through competitive bidding and the Company could lose any of its EAS contracts to the Company’s competitors. In addition, the DOT has the right to cancel EAS contracts if it determines that the communities served by such contracts are no longer eligible. At March 1, 2006, the Company served 28 EAS communities on a subsidized basis. Effect of General Economic Conditions The airline industry is significantly affected by general economic conditions. During recent recessions, most airlines reduced fares in an effort to increase traffic. Economic and competitive conditions in the airline industry have contributed to a number of bankruptcies and liquidations among airlines. A worsening of current economic conditions, or an extended period of recession, whether nationally or regionally, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. See “Forward-Looking Statements” at the front of this report. Fuel Costs Fuel is a major component of the Company’s operating expenses. The Company does not hedge its fuel purchasing costs. The Company’s cost of fuel varies directly with market conditions, and the Company has no guaranteed long-term sources of supply. Generally, the Company intends to follow industry trends by raising fares in response to significant fuel price increases. However, the Company’s ability to pass on increased fuel costs through fare increases may be limited by economic and competitive conditions. Accordingly, a reduction in the availability of, or an increase in, the price of fuel could have a material adverse effect on both the Company’s cash flow from operations and the Company’s profitability. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, the Company’s average price per gallon of fuel consumed increased to an average of $2.13 per gallon compared to the average price per gallon of $1.56 for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004. The Company estimates that every $.01 increase in the price per gallon of fuel equates to an annualized increase in fuel expense of approximately $83,000. Control by Principal Stockholders Raytheon, the Company’s principal creditor, owns 5,371,980 shares of the Company’s common stock, representing an approximate 38.2% interest in the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. Raytheon acquired the shares in consideration for concessions granted by Raytheon pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement. Mr. Douglas G. Voss, Chairman of the Board of the Company, beneficially owns or controls approximately 40.9% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, including shares owned by Ms. Gayle R. Brandt. Pursuant to a Marital Dissolution Stipulation and Property Settlement, Ms. Brandt granted to Mr. Voss an Irrevocable Proxy to vote her shares of the Company’s common stock. Mr. Voss retains the right to vote Ms. Brandt’s shares until June 28, 2010. Accordingly, Mr. Voss and Raytheon are in a position to control the management and affairs of the Company. 15 Limited Market for Company Securities The Company’s Common Stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market on August 14, 2002. As a result of the delisting, the Company’s Common Stock has become subject to certain rules of the SEC relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require broker-dealers to make a suitability determination for purchasers and to receive the purchaser’s prior written consent for a purchase transaction, thus restricting the ability to purchase or sell the securities in the open market. Trading of the Company’s Common Stock is conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which was established for securities that do not meet NASDAQ listing requirements. Consequently, trading the Company’s Common Stock may be more difficult because of lower trading volumes, transaction delays, and reduced security analyst and news media coverage of the Company. These factors could also contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for the Company’s Common Stock. 