Risk Factors,” below for additional discussion of these factors. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. Changes may occur after that date, and we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements except as required by law in the normal course of our public disclosure practices. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Great Lakes Aviation, Ltd. (Great Lakes) is a regional airline operating as an independent carrier and as a code share partner with United Air Lines, Inc. (United Airlines or United) and Frontier Airlines, Inc. (Frontier Airlines or Frontier). As of March 1, 2009, we served 65 airports in seventeen states with a fleet of Embraer EMB-120 Brasilias and Raytheon/Beech 1900D regional airliners. All scheduled flights are operated under the Great Lakes Airlines marketing identity in conjunction with code-share agreements with United Airlines and/or Frontier Airlines at our Albuquerque, Billings, Denver, Kansas City, Ontario, CA and Phoenix hubs. We also operate hubs in Milwaukee and St. Louis. We were incorporated on October 25, 1979 as an Iowa corporation and became a publicly traded company on January 21, 1994. General information about us and a current route map can be found at www.flygreatlakes.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website after we have filed such reports with, or furnished them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not incorporated into, nor a part of, this Form 10-K or our other securities filings. Essential Air Service Program Great Lakes derived approximately 34% of our total revenue from the Essential Air Service program (EAS) in 2008, which is administered by the United States Department of Transportation (the DOT). The EAS program was instituted under the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (the Deregulation Act), which allowed airlines greater freedom to introduce, increase, and generally reduce or eliminate service to existing markets. Under the EAS program, certain communities are guaranteed specified levels of “essential air service.” In order to promote the provision of essential air services, the DOT may authorize the payment of federal subsidies to compensate an air carrier that is providing essential air services in otherwise unprofitable or minimally profitable markets. An airline serving a community that qualifies for essential air services is required to give the DOT advance notice before the airline may terminate, suspend, or reduce service. Depending on the circumstances, the DOT may require the continuation of existing service until a replacement carrier is found. EAS rates are normally set for two-year periods for each city. Significant fluctuations in passenger traffic, fares and associated revenues, as well as fluctuations in fuel and other costs, may cause EAS routes to become unprofitable during these two-year terms. At the end of the two year term for EAS service to a particular city, the DOT may request competitive proposals from other airlines. Proposals, when requested, are evaluated on, among other things, the level of service provided, the amount of subsidy requested, the fitness of the applicant, and comments from the communities served. Essential Air Service (“EAS”) Program Activity For the year ending December 31, 2008, we added service to sixteen additional communities under the EAS program. These communities were Vernal and Moab, UT; Manhattan and Salina, KS; Cape Girardeau and Joplin, MO; McCook, NE; Ironwood and Manistee, MI; Lewistown, Sidney and Miles City, MT; Ely, NV; Prescott, AZ; and Merced and Visalia, CA. 2 Table of Contents On February 1, 2009 we added service to five additional communities under the EAS program. We initiated service from Glasgow, Glendive, Havre and Wolf Point, MT to Billings, MT; and we commenced service to Grand Island, NE from Kansas City, MO. As of March 1, 2009, we served 47 EAS communities on a subsidized basis. United Airlines and Frontier Airlines Code Share Relationships United Airlines. Great Lakes has operated under ticket revenue proration code share agreements with United Airlines since April 1992. On May 1, 2001, we transitioned from a traditional United Express branded code share agreement to a unique agreement that provides United with marketable access to all seats on Great Lakes aircraft whereby the United code share product provides our mutual customers connecting opportunities and access to all of the benefits of the United product line including convenient baggage transfer and United’s frequent flyer program. The agreement provides Great Lakes the opportunity to establish code share and interline relationships with other carriers at any Great Lakes hub. Operational terms of the May 2001 transition from United Express branding, to Great Lakes branding, provided for the repainting of our aircraft to reflect the Great Lakes livery and the remodeling of Great Lakes ticket counters to promote the Great Lakes brand while maintaining automated check-in for connecting United passengers. The current terms of the United code share agreement provides for the use United Airlines flight designator codes on certain flights that connect with United flights at our Billings, MT, Denver, CO, Kansas City, MO, Ontario, CA and Phoenix, AZ hubs. Frontier Airlines. On May 3, 2001, we entered into a code share agreement with Frontier, which was implemented July 9, 2001. The Frontier agreement facilitates additional convenient access to connecting seat inventories and makes available the entire Frontier product line to all Great Lakes communities. The Frontier flight designator code (F9) can be used on Great Lakes’ flights connecting with Frontier’s flights at our Albuquerque, NM, Billings, MT, Denver, CO, and Phoenix, AZ hubs. Accordingly, certain flights to and from our Billings, Denver, and Phoenix hubs carry both the United Airlines and Frontier Airlines flight designator codes and all flights throughout our route system may carry the Great Lakes designator code. Currently, we estimate that approximately 39% of Great Lakes’ connecting passenger traffic utilizes the United code share product line and approximately 21% of Great Lakes’ connecting passenger traffic utilizes the Frontier code share product line. Interline Relationships Since 1982, Great Lakes has developed and maintained various interline relationships with numerous domestic and international airlines. In recent years, as the industry has modified it’s interline ticketing and baggage agreements to move towards a higher reliance on internet based distribution structures, the traditional paper ticket transaction systems are being phased out. Great Lakes is committed to being part of the airline industry’s mission to simplify the customer relationship. As a byproduct of this commitment, we have recently developed electronic ticketing (e-ticket) interline agreements with Continental Airlines and U. S. Airways. We intend to update our remaining paper ticket interline agreements with e-ticket processing procedures over the course of the next several months. Markets As of December 31, 2008, Great Lakes operated 284 weekday flights. Service scheduled to and from our seven hubs include; 132 flights at Denver, 8 flights at Albuquerque, 12 flights at Phoenix, 20 flights at St. Louis, 32 flights at Kansas City, MO, 8 flights at Milwaukee and 8 flights at Ontario, CA. 3 Table of Contents As of March 1, 2009, Great Lakes’ route map, consisting of current scheduled service and recently awarded Essential Air Service communities, is as follows: We frequently modify our routes. For a current map of routes being flown, please visit our website at www.flygreatlakes.com. Marketing Great Lakes services are marketed primarily by means of our internet web site, global distributions systems (travel agencies and travel agent web sites), our reservation call center and seat capacity made available through our code share agreements. Great Lakes promotional programs emphasize our close affiliation with our code share partners and, in particular, the opportunity for our passengers to participate in related customer service benefits, such as frequent flyer programs. Yield Management Great Lakes monitors our inventory and pricing of available seats utilizing yield management techniques. These processes enable our revenue control analysts to examine our past traffic and pricing trends, and to estimate the optimal number of seats to make available for sale at various fares. The analysts then monitor each flight to adjust seat allocations and booking levels, with the objective of maximizing total revenue for each flight. 4 Table of Contents Charter and Freight Service Great Lakes uses its Beechcraft 1900D’s and Embraer Brasilia aircraft to provide charter services to private individuals, corporations and athletic teams. We also carry freight and small packages on most of our scheduled flights. Combined revenues from our charter flights and freight air service were 1.0%, 0.7%, and 1.5% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Seasonality Seasonal factors, primarily weather conditions and passenger demand, generally affect our monthly passenger enplanements. We have historically shown a higher level of passenger enplanements in the May through October period as compared with the November through April period for many of the cities served. These seasonal factors have generally resulted in reduced revenues, lower operating income, and less cash flow for us during the November through April period. As a result of such factors, our revenues and earnings have shown a corresponding increase during the May through October period. Essential Air Service revenues are generated under subsidy per departure rates established by the DOT and we realize revenue as departures are performed. Inherently, our EAS revenues are not affected by seasonality. Competition Great Lakes competes for passenger traffic with regional and major air carriers and ground transportation. We also compete with other regional air carriers to receive EAS subsidies for providing air service to small communities. Our competition from other air carriers varies from location to location and, in certain areas, comes from regional and major carriers who serve airports in close proximity to destinations we serve. In 2008, three of our primary competitors, serving our same geographic markets with the same type aircraft, and with EAS subsidies, ceased operations. These airlines include Air Midwest, Big Sky Airlines and Skyways Airlines. As a result of these competitors exiting the market regions we serve, Great Lakes experienced less direct competition for EAS subsidy awards than in prior years. Aircraft As of December 31, 2008, our fleet consisted of 28 Beechcraft Model 1900D 19-passenger aircraft and six Embraer Brasilia Model 120 30-passenger aircraft. Beechcraft 1900D Aircraft. The 19 passenger Beechcraft 1900D aircraft are pressurized, weather radar equipped, and offer a 310-mile per hour cruising speed. Embraer Brasilia Aircraft. The 30-passenger Embraer Brasilia aircraft are pressurized, weather radar equipped, has restrooms, is staffed with a flight attendant, and offers a 330-mile per hour cruising speed. 5 Table of Contents A summary of our operating aircraft as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Owned 25 4 25 4 25 4 Operating leases 3 2 — 2 — 2 28 6 25 6 25 6 As of December 31, 2008, the average age of our aircraft was approximately 14 years. Maintenance Federal Aviation Administration (the FAA)-approved and Great Lakes-developed maintenance programs require periodic inspection and maintenance of commercial aircraft. We perform our maintenance and inspection of our aircraft and engines, with the exception of engine overhauls. The heavy maintenance bases are located in Cheyenne, WY and Farmington, NM. Line maintenance is also performed in Denver, CO and Phoenix, AZ. Parts inventories are maintained at these locations to promote the mechanical dispatch reliability of the fleet. We also keep an inventory of spare engines and propellers for our fleet to allow for minimal downtime during major overhauls. We operate a FAA certified repair station utilizing company-trained mechanics and repair personnel to perform overhaul and repair of selected aircraft components for our fleet of Beechcraft 1900D and Embraer Brasilia EMB-120 aircraft. Great Lakes has a Fleet Management ProgramTM contract with Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) under which P&WC supplies us with certain engine maintenance services (the FMP contract) for certain Beechcraft 1900D aircraft through June 30, 2011. Fuel Great Lakes expects to continue to be able to obtain fuel in quantities sufficient to meet our future requirements. We contract, both through intermediaries and directly with refiners for the purchase of a significant portion of our aircraft fuel requirements. However, standard industry contracts generally do not provide protection against fuel price increases and do not ensure availability of supply. Accordingly, an increase in the cost of fuel, if not accompanied by an equivalent increase in passenger revenues or subsidies, could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. During 2008, our average price of fuel, including taxes and plane service fees, was $3.58 per gallon, as compared to $2.76 in 2007 and $2.42 in 2006. Based on rates of consumption for 2008, a one cent increase or decrease in the per gallon price of fuel will increase or decrease our fuel expense by approximately $117,000 annually. Liquidity and Financing Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation Great Lakes’ primary creditor is Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation (Raytheon). In the first quarter of 2007, we renegotiated the debt owed on 25 Beech 1900D aircraft and issued 25 amended and restated promissory notes (the Aircraft Notes), each secured by an amended security agreement covering the related aircraft. Each of the Aircraft Notes had an original principal amount of $2,116,574, for a total amount of $52,914,343, bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.75% per annum, and provides for monthly payments with interest in arrears starting 6 Table of Contents on March 30, 2007. At December 31, 2008 the principal balance outstanding on these Aircraft Notes was $45,079,679. The Aircraft Notes mature on June 30, 2011, at which time a final payment of $1,306,675 is due for each aircraft or $32,666,871 for all 25 Beech 1900D aircraft. In the first quarter of 2007, Great Lakes also renegotiated our Senior Note with Raytheon which is secured by four Embraer Brasalia aircraft, as well as all other assets of the Company. The Senior Note had an original principal amount of $13,174,755 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 7.00%. Interest on the Senior Note is payable monthly in arrears on the last day of each month, commencing on March 30, 2007. At December 31, 2008 the principal outstanding balance on the Senior Note was $10,869,210. The Senior Note provides for quarterly payments of principal on June 30, September 30, and December 30 each year until the note fully amortizes and matures on December 30, 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Great Lakes leased three additional Beechcraft 1900D aircraft from Raytheon for a term of three years. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we leased two additional Beechcraft 1900D aircraft from Raytheon for a term of three years. Great Lakes is dependent on cash generated from operations to provide for the debt service and lease requirements related to the Raytheon debt and lease obligations. For additional information regarding the Company’s arrangements with Raytheon, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Liquidity and Capital Resources and Contractual Obligations.” Employees At March 1, 2009, the Company had 581 full-time and 348 part-time active employees, as compared to 557 full-time and 288 part-time active employees at March 1, 2008. The Company’s pilots are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT). In May 2006, the Company and the IBT agreed to binding arbitration to achieve a new three year labor agreement. On September 16, 2006, the arbitrator ruled on terms that resulted in a new labor agreement that will not become amendable until September 16, 2009. The Company’s flight attendants are also represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the Company’s agreement with the flight attendants became amendable on April 1, 2002. Negotiations with the flight attendants are not active at the present time. The Company’s mechanics and maintenance clerks are represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM). The collective bargaining agreements between the Company and the clerks and mechanics represented by IAM, District 143, became amendable in 2002 and 2005, respectively. In August of 2007, approximately sixteen months after collective bargaining sessions had ended, the IAM invoked National Mediation Board (“NMB”) assistance. That bargaining is ongoing, and litigation challenging the Company’s obligation to engage in collective bargaining has been resolved. On December 10, 2007, the NMB received an application seeking a representation election for the Company’s mechanics. On July 10, 2008, the NMB dismissed the representation election application due to the applicants’ failure to properly identify the party that would challenge the IAM in an election. In 2003, the Company’s dispatchers voted to be represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Negotiations with the dispatchers are not active at the present time. 7 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information with respect to the Company’s executive officers as of March 1, 2009. Name Age Title Douglas G. Voss 54 Chairman of the Board of Directors and President Charles R. Howell IV 51 Chief Executive Officer Michael O. Matthews 52 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael L. Tuinstra 55 Treasurer Douglas G. Voss. Mr. Voss co-founded the Company in 1979 and served in the position of Chief Executive Officer from the Company’s inception until December 31, 2002. Mr. Voss has served as a director of the Company since the Company’s inception and became Chairman of the Board of Directors on December 31, 2002. Mr. Voss was initially licensed as a private pilot in 1974 and today holds both an Airline Transport Pilot Certificate and an Airframe and Powerplant Mechanic Certificates. Mr. Voss is a graduate of Colorado Aero Tech. Mr. Voss has previously served the Company in the FAA Air Carrier Certificate required operational control positions of Director of Operations and Director of Maintenance. Charles R. Howell IV. Mr. Howell became the Chief Executive Officer of the Company on December 31, 2002. Mr. Howell served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2002 until December 31, 2002. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Howell was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Corporate Airlines, Inc., a Nashville-based airline that he co-founded in 1996. Michael O. Matthews. Mr. Matthews became the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on March 28, 2005. Mr. Matthews joined the Company in November 2004 as Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Matthews was employed as Director of Treasury for Budget Group, Inc. Prior to joining Budget Group, Inc. in 2000, Mr. Matthews held management positions in the financial services industry including Newcourt Financial, MetLife Capital, Sanwa Business Credit and Societe Generale Financial Corporation. Michael L. Tuinstra. Mr. Tuinstra became the Company’s Treasurer in January 2002. From August 1998 to January 2002, Mr. Tuinstra served as the Company’s Director of Purchasing and Inventory Control. From August 1998 until April 1999, Mr. Tuinstra was the Company’s budget and financial analyst. Regulation In accordance with the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (the 1958 Act), we are an air carrier subject to regulation by the DOT, primarily with respect to economic matters. As a commuter air carrier, we are licensed under Part 298 of the Economic Regulations of the DOT. Great Lakes holds an air carrier operating certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) pursuant to Part 121 of the FAA’s regulations. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires that an airline obtain an operating certificate and operations specifications for each particular aircraft and type of operations conducted by the carrier, all of which are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. As a result, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to our operations, aircraft maintenance, and safety related matters, including, but not limited to, equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, training, weather observation, flight personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The Deregulation Act of 1978 eliminated many regulatory constraints so that airlines became free to set fares and, with limited exceptions, to establish domestic routes without the necessity of seeking government approval. The DOT is still authorized to establish consumer protection regulations in order to prohibit certain pricing practices, mandate conditions of carriage, and make ongoing determinations of a carrier’s fitness, willingness, 8 Table of Contents and ability to provide air transportation properly and lawfully. The DOT also has the power to bring proceedings to enforce its regulations under the 1958 Act and seek penalties, including the assessment of civil penalties, the revocation of operating authority, and criminal sanctions. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act requires the adoption of certain security measures by airlines and airports, including the screening of passengers and baggage. The security measures are being partially funded by a per flight segment tax on tickets. We are responsible for certain security costs above this level. We are subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission regarding the use of our radio facilities. In addition, local governments and authorities in certain markets have adopted regulations governing various aspects of aircraft operations, including noise abatement, curfews, and use of airport facilities. We believe that we are in compliance with all such regulations. We are subject to regulation under various environmental laws and regulations, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. In addition, many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations to which our operations are subject. Insurance Great Lakes carries the types and amounts of insurance that are required by the DOT and are customary in the regional airline industry, including coverage for public liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability, and workers’ compensation. As a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, aviation insurers have significantly increased premiums for all aviation coverage, while dramatically reducing the amount of coverage available for war-risk occurrences. In response to the reduction in coverage, the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (the Stabilization Act) provided U.S. air carriers with the option to purchase certain war-risk liability insurance from the United States government on an interim basis at rates that are more favorable than those available in the private market. We have purchased this coverage and anticipates renewing it for as long as the coverage is available from the United States government. The airline and insurance industries, together with the United States and other governments, are continuing to evaluate both the cost of aviation insurance and options for providing insurance coverage. We anticipate that we will follow industry practices with respect to sources of insurance. We believe our insurance is adequate as to amounts and risks covered. There can be no assurance, however, that the limits of our insurance will be sufficient to cover any catastrophic loss, or that we will be able to renew insurance at commercially reasonable rates. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks we describe below occur, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment in us. Economic and industry conditions constantly change, and negative economic conditions in the United States may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The airline industry is significantly affected by general economic conditions, and the global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for air travel in general. During recent recessions, most airlines reduced fares in an effort to increase traffic. During 2008, economic and competitive conditions in the airline industry 9 Table of Contents contributed to a number of airline bankruptcies. A worsening of current economic conditions, or an extended period of recession, whether nationally or regionally, would have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenue and income. We are dependent on connecting capacity at our hubs. Our business depends on and is sensitive to events affecting the airline industry capacity at our connecting hubs. The operations of other airlines with substantial business at those hubs, therefore, impacts our business. For example, our code share partners United Airlines and Frontier Airlines operate a large percentage of the flights at Denver International Airport, our largest hub. Changes in their business plan or model, employee strikes or job actions, significant curtailment of services, or terrorist events could have an adverse effect on our financial results as could the ability of Frontier to achieve financial viability as they undergo Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. Our operations could be negatively impacted by future terrorist events or war activity. Our operations are sensitive to changes in the economy and airline industry that are caused by, or related to, past and future terrorist attacks. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the impact of additional airline and security charges on our costs, reduced customer demand for travel, the cost and availability of war-risk and other aviation insurance (including the federal government’s provision of third party war-risk coverage). War or other military action by the United States or other countries could have a significant effect on passenger traffic and passenger revenue. We are dependent on Essential Air Service revenues. In 2008, Great Lakes received approximately $39.3 million of EAS subsidies as compensation for Essential Air Service provided by us to small cities, as compared to $24.1 million in 2007. EAS subsidies are expected, in the near term, to increase as a percentage of our revenues due to the increased number of DOT awards for relatively low load factor EAS markets. The total amount of EAS subsidy ultimately received by us over an extended period is determined by, among other things, overall funding levels to the DOT by Congress, competitive bids by other carriers, schedule modifications at the request of the DOT, and our optimization of our schedules. The DOT awards EAS subsidies through competitive bidding and Great Lakes could lose its EAS subsidy to competitors. In addition, the DOT has the right to cancel EAS arrangements if it determines that the communities served by such arrangements are no longer eligible. Fuel costs have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the operations and financial performance of the airline industry. Aircraft fuel is a major component of our operating expenses. Aircraft fuel represented approximately 35.3% of our operating expenses in 2008 compared to 28.4% of our operating expenses in 2007. Great Lakes does not participate in risk-based fuel hedging instruments. Our cost of fuel varies directly with market conditions, and we have no guaranteed long-term sources of supply. Accordingly, a reduction in the availability of, or an increase in the price of fuel, could have a material adverse effect on both our cash flow from operations and our profitability. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our average price per gallon of fuel consumed increased to an average of $3.58 per gallon compared to the average price per gallon of $2.76 for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We estimate that every $.01 increase in the price per gallon of fuel equates to an annualized increase in fuel expense of approximately $117,000 based on 2008 operating activity. 10 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of contractual obligations, including a balloon payment on our debt maturing in 2011. The airline business is very capital intensive and, as a result, many airline companies are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of approximately $59.4 million in total long-term debt obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our mandatory debt service payments totaled $6.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively, and our mandatory lease payments totaled $0.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft, which aggregated approximately $5.1 million and $3.2 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft or make other capital expenditures necessary for expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, Raytheon, our principal creditor, has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and other assets and the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. Even if we are able to timely service our debt, the size of our long-term debt and lease obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: • increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; • limiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and • adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions. In addition, our aircraft notes secured by 25 Beechcraft 1900D aircraft mature on June 30, 2011, at which time a $32.7 million balloon payment is due. There are no assurances that we would be able to refinance the obligation, generate enough cash from operations, secure replacement sources of financing, raise additional capital, or any combination of the foregoing, to satisfy the terms of the aircraft notes. We are controlled by two principal stockholders. Raytheon, our principal creditor, owns 5,371,980 shares of the Company’s common stock, representing an approximate 37.6% interest in our outstanding shares of common stock. Raytheon acquired the shares in consideration for concessions granted by Raytheon pursuant to the 2002 Restructuring Agreement. Mr. Douglas G. Voss, Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns or controls 5,581,000 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock, including the shares owned by Ms. Gayle R. Brandt, representing an approximately 39.1% interest. Pursuant to a Marital Dissolution Stipulation and Property Settlement, Ms. Brandt granted to Mr. Voss an Irrevocable Proxy to vote her shares of our common stock until June 28, 2010. Accordingly, Mr. Voss and Raytheon are in a position to control the management and affairs of Great Lakes. This concentration in ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Any labor disruption or labor strikes by our employees or those of our code share partners would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. All of our pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and maintenance clerks, and dispatchers are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represent 36% of our workforce as of December 31, 2008. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on the amended terms of their collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, a labor disruption or labor strike at either of our code share partners would also affect our business. 11 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our Chairman of the Board and President, Douglas G. Voss, and our other key management and operating personnel. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of these individuals to execute our business plans. If we experience substantial turnover in our leadership and other key employees, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. We are at risk of losses stemming from an accident involving any of our aircraft. It is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or serious injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft and the property of third parties. If one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we would be exposed to significant tort liability. Such liability could include liability arising from the claims of passengers or their estates seeking to recover damages for death or injury. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover such damages will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and a decrease in revenues. Such a decrease could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations could increase our operating costs. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that necessitate significant expenditures. Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations, as well as regulation by states, airports and municipalities that affect our operations. In addition, proposed laws and regulations, if enacted, may increase our expenses and affect our business. For example, the federal government has on several occasions proposed a significant increase in taxes on our industry. The proposed tax increases, if implemented, could negatively impact our revenues. “Passenger bill of rights” legislation was introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would have, among other things, required the payment of compensation to passengers as a result of certain delays and limited the ability of carriers to prohibit or restrict usage of certain tickets. Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a significant effect on the airline industry, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. We cannot predict whether these or other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents There is a limited market for our securities. Trading of our Common Stock is conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which was established for securities that do not meet NASDAQ listing requirements. Consequently, trading Great Lakes Common Stock may be more difficult because of lower trading volumes, transaction delays, and reduced security analyst and news media coverage of Great Lakes. These factors could also contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our Common Stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 