ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below and the other information included or incorporated by reference into this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently do not deem material may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are currently experiencing a shortage of qualified pilots which has materially impacted our operations and financial condition. New Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), pilot qualification rules imposed as part of the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010 in combination with revised FAR Part 117 Flight Crewmember Flight and Duty Limitations and Rest Requirements, (“FAR Part 117”), have created an industry-wide shortage of qualified pilots and negatively affected our operations and financial condition. These new rules resulted in a greatly accelerated demand for qualified pilots as air carriers proceeded to increase pilot staffing requirements to compensate for the loss of crew efficiency due to the new rules. As a result, Great Lakes lost a large portion of its pool of qualified pilots with ATP certification. The Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010 was enacted in August 2010. Among many other pilot training directives, the legislation mandated that first officers (co-pilots) obtain an Airline Transport Pilot certification (“ATP”) prior to being qualified to perform crewmember duties in scheduled airline passenger service under FAR Part 121 regulatory requirements. A key factor to enable a pilot to receive an ATP certificate is the accumulation of 1,500 flight hours. Furthermore, the legislation directed the FAA Administrator to conduct a rule making proceeding, to identify specific training programs that would provide for exemptions to the 1,500 hour requirement. The FAA published the final rule in the Federal Register on July 15, 2013. These rules became effective August 1, 2013. As a result of the rule making process, first officers may be eligible to receive a “restricted privileges” ATP with a minimum of 750 hours if they were a military pilot, 1,000 hours if they have received a bachelor’s degree from an accredited educational institution with an aviation major and 1,250 hours if they have received an associate’s degree from an accredited educational institution with an aviation major. Prior to this new rule, regulatory requirements provided for pilots to become eligible as first officers for a FAR Part 121 air carrier with a minimum of 250 hours of experience. The new rules also mandate that a first officer must have 1,000 hours as a FAR Part 121 first officer in an air carrier operation prior to being eligible to serve as a captain in a FAR Part 121 airline. As an alternative, the rule provides for captain eligibility under FAR Part 121 for pilots who accumulate 1,000 hours of pilot in command time a FAR Part 135 operation. These new pilot qualification rules have severed the historical path in which pilots have had the opportunity to build enough hours so they could advance their careers. Great Lakes has historically provided this career path for more than 32 years. The current supply of pilot candidates who qualify under the new regulations is severely limited. It is difficult for Great Lakes, which operates Beech 1900D turboprop aircraft, to compete for qualified pilots with other airlines operating 50 seat regional jets and larger equipment. 13 Table of Contents As a result, we have had to reduce scheduled departures by suspending service to multiple communities eligible for Essential Air Service, and other non-EAS markets. These actions resulted in a reduction of revenue and operating expenses. The rate of expense reduction will inherently lag the revenue drop-off as the Company aggressively adjusts its operating expenditures to match the new level of operations. In April of 2013, Great Lakes submitted a written proposal to the FAA seeking authority to operate Beech 1900D aircraft in a nine seat passenger configuration utilizing FAR Part 135 pilot hiring requirements, while maintaining and complying with all other FAR Part 121 operational and maintenance standards. On March 18, 2014, the Company received from the FAA new operations specifications allowing the Company to hire pilots under FAR Part 135 regulatory requirements. This will allow us to restore pilot staffing levels while maintaining FAR Part 121 hiring, training and employment standards as we have always done as a Part 121 carrier. The reduction in the availability of qualified pilots has caused the Company to reduce our capacity by suspending service to multiple communities eligible for Essential Air Service subsidies, canceling and suspending service at several non-EAS subsidized markets. This has caused a significant decrease in revenues that will have a negative impact on earnings in the immediate future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to hire and retain pilots in amounts necessary to support its operations. We are not in compliance with financial covenants under our senior credit facility with our Lenders. As of December 31, 2013, the Company was not in compliance with financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement. Furthermore, the Company does not expect to be in compliance with the leverage ratio covenant throughout the balance of 2014. Further, at March 31, 2014, the Company had not submitted its audited annual report to its lenders within the timeframe required by the Credit Agreement. Furthermore, the auditor’s report over the Company’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 contained an explanatory paragraph referencing substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. These are covenant violations that permit the Company’s lenders to exercise their right to declare our debt obligations to be immediately due and payable under the terms of the Credit Agreement. As a result, of not being in compliance with the terms of the Company’s senior credit facility and the expectation the Company will not be in compliance with the terms of the senior credit facility throughout 2014, all borrowings (approximately $24.2 million) under the Company’s senior credit facility are classified as current maturities as of December 31, 2013. On April 1, 2014, the Company and its Lenders entered into a Third Amendment and Forbearance Agreement which terminates on April 30, 2014. Under the terms of this agreement the Company’s lenders have agreed to refrain from exercising their right to declare the obligations to be immediately due and payable under the terms of the Credit Agreement. On March 31, 2014, the Company also made its regularly scheduled debt payment to the lenders in the amount of $1 million. Until the Company is able to re-staff with enough qualified pilots to restore service to suspended or terminated markets, it is expected that the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to service its debt obligations for the 12 month period ending December 31, 2014. In order to remedy this situation the Company is engaged in discussions with its Lenders and is pursuing additional or alternative sources of financing. The Company cannot make assurances that its assets or cash flow from operations will be sufficient to repay borrowings under its existing debt obligations, either upon maturity or if accelerated, or that it will be able to refinance or restructure the payments due under the terms of the Credit Agreement. This would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial position, and would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to obtain sufficient working capital to cover projected near term cash shortfalls. Cash projections indicate that the Company will have negative cash flow from operations through August 2014. This shortfall, combined with scheduled debt amortization, will deplete our available cash. Without additional working capital, in the near term, from new or existing lenders, new equity, or cash from the sale/leaseback of assets, the Company may not have sufficient cash to operate. 14 Table of Contents We depend on Essential Air Service revenue to justify a substantial portion of our capacity. We receive Essential Air Service (“EAS”) revenue as compensation for essential air service provided by us to smaller communities. We received $55.4 million of EAS revenue for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2013, representing approximately 47% of our total operating revenue, compared to $58.3 million of EAS revenue, or approximately 42% of our total operating revenue, for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2012. The total amount of EAS revenue ultimately received by us over an extended period is determined by, among other things, overall funding levels of the EAS program by the U.S. Congress (which could be reduced), competitive bids by other carriers (which could cause us to lose EAS revenue to competitors), and our ability to optimize our schedules. EAS revenue awards generally have a term of two years. The U.S. Department of Transportation, which administers the EAS program, has the right to cancel EAS revenue awards if it deems that the communities served by such arrangements are no longer eligible. The FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 was enacted into law on February 14, 2012. This legislation provides for the authorization of the Essential Air Service program for federal fiscal years 2011 through 2014. Federal fiscal year 2014 ends on September 30, 2015. The FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 reaffirmed the Congressional commitment to the continuance of the Essential Air Service program. However, there can be no assurances that future legislation will be consistent with this current legislation or that Congress will provide appropriated funding for the program at any particular level. A reduction of EAS revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations, or changes in interpretations of current regulations, could increase our operating costs. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that may necessitate significant expenditures. Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations and/or reduce our revenue. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandated the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposed additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations, as well as regulation by states, airports and municipalities that have jurisdiction over our operations. In addition, proposed laws, regulations, taxes and user fees, if enacted, may increase our operating expenses and otherwise affect our business. Examples of this are the recent proposals to impose substantial user fees on aviation (including airlines) to fund air traffic control system costs and upgrades to that system. Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions also could have a significant effect on the airline industry, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. We cannot predict whether these or other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Airline industry conditions constantly change, and negative economic conditions in the United States may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The airline industry is significantly affected by general economic conditions, and the global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for air travel in general. Economic and competitive conditions in the airline industry have contributed to a number of airline bankruptcies in recent years. A worsening of current economic conditions, or an extended period of recession, whether nationally or regionally, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents We depend on connecting capacity at our hubs and the activities of our code share partners affect that capacity. Our business depends on, and is sensitive to, events affecting the airline industry capacity at our connecting hubs. The operations of other airlines with substantial business at those hubs, therefore, impact our business. Our code share partners United Airlines and Frontier Airlines operate a large percentage of the flights at Denver International Airport, our largest hub. Changes in their business plans or models, employee strikes or job actions, or significant curtailment of services could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our code share agreements with Frontier Airlines and United Airlines do not have a fixed termination date, but are cancellable by either party upon sufficient notice. We estimate that approximately 39% and 19% of our connecting passenger traffic utilizes the United Airline and Frontier Airlines code share product line, respectively. While we are the only carrier serving the majority of the non-hub destinations we serve, we can make no assurances that absent a code share agreement with United Airlines or Frontier Airlines, that passengers wishing to travel to these destinations would either: (i) purchase travel through our interline e-ticketing agreements established with United Airlines, Frontier Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Airlines, U.S. Airways and American Airlines or (ii) purchase their travel directly through our own sales channels. Therefore, if the United Airlines or Frontier Airlines code share agreements are terminated, we cannot predict the effect this would have on our future total operating revenue. An “ownership change” under IRS Section 382 could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2013, we had estimated net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of $18.7 million for federal income tax purposes that expire beginning in 2021 and continuing through 2024. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change”. Generally, an ownership change occurs if one or more shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more in value of a corporation’s stock, increase their percentage ownership, in the aggregate, by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of stock owned by such shareholders at any time during the preceding three-year period. If we were to undergo an ownership change as defined in Section 382, our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of these losses. Our NOLs available to offset future taxable income could be severely limited and the NOLs may expire as a result of the limitation. If we were to experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 we may have to reduce or eliminate our deferred tax assets, incur future income taxes payable that could require cash payments or a combination of both. The effect could be materially adverse to our financial statements and cash flows. At this time, we cannot predict if future transactions in our shares would constitute a change in ownership as defined by Section 382, and, therefore, affect the availability of our NOLs. Our operations could be negatively impacted by terrorist events or war activity. Our operations are sensitive to changes in the economy and airline industry that are caused by, or related to, past and future terrorist attacks. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the impact of additional airline and security charges on our costs, reduced customer demand for travel, the cost and availability of war-risk and other aviation insurance (including the federal government’s provision of third party war-risk coverage). War or other military action by the United States or other countries could have a significant effect on passenger traffic and passenger revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We compete for passenger traffic and EAS revenue with other air carriers. We compete for passenger traffic with regional and major air carriers. We also compete with other regional air carriers to receive EAS revenue for providing air service to small communities. Our competition from other air carriers varies from location to location and, in certain areas, comes from regional and major carriers who serve the same airports or larger airports which are in close proximity to some of the destinations we serve. Additionally, passengers may decide to drive or utilize other ground transportation services to nearby airports which we do not serve and/or hubs in which we serve. These competing factors could adversely affect our future passenger revenues. 16 Table of Contents Fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on us. Expenditures for fuel and related taxes represent one of the largest costs of operating our business. Our operations depend on the availability of jet fuel supplies, and our results are significantly impacted by changes in jet fuel prices, which have been volatile in the last 36 months. Volatility in jet fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Any labor disruption by our employees or those of our code share partners would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and maintenance clerks, and dispatchers are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represented approximately 34% of our workforce as of December 31, 2013. The collective bargaining agreements became amendable in 2010 for the pilots and 2005 for the mechanics. We entered into a new four year agreement with our flight attendants effective May 17, 2011. Our pilots are represented by the United Transportation Union (“UTU”). The pilot collective bargaining agreement became amendable on September 16, 2010. The Company and the UTU have been engaged in contract mediation under the auspices of the National Mediation Board (“NMB”). If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups when collective bargaining agreements are amendable, we may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A labor disruption or labor strike at either of our code share partners could have the same effects. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our Chairman of the Board and President, Douglas G. Voss, and our other key management and operating personnel. We depend on the experience and industry knowledge of these individuals to execute our business plans. If we experience turnover in our leadership and other key employees, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. We are at risk of losses stemming from an accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to be involved in a serious accident, we could be exposed to significant liability for loss of life or other damages. Though we carry insurance against liability resulting from accidents, we cannot assure you of its adequacy in all circumstances. An accident could result in decreased revenues which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, depending on the circumstances, any accident involving a particular aircraft of the type that we operate could result in a negative perception of that type of aircraft by air travelers. This could adversely affect our revenue whether or not our company was actually involved in the accident. We rely on technology and automated systems to operate our business, and a failure of these technologies or systems, or failures by their operators, could harm our business. We depend on technology and automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservations system, our telecommunication systems, our website, our maintenance and engineering systems, our flight dispatching and crew management systems, our flight scheduling systems, and other technologies and systems. Disruption in, changes to, or a breach of, these systems could result in the loss of important data, negatively affect our customer service, increase our expenses, delay or impede our flight and related operations, or otherwise adversely impact our business. We may be vulnerable to external interruption in technology infrastructure on which we depend, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, whether due to large-scale events, such as natural disasters, or directed actions, including terrorist attacks and system security attacks seeking to compromise or obtain financial data, infect systems with computer viruses or impair or disrupt functionality through denial of services. 17 Table of Contents Production of both types of aircraft which we fly has ceased. As of March 20, 2014, we operated a fleet of 28 Beechcraft Model 1900D 19-passenger aircraft and 6 Embraer Brasilia Model 120 30-passenger aircraft, neither of which of which are currently in production. These aircraft types continue to receive factory parts, manufacturing and engineering support. We may experience increased maintenance costs as our fleet ages. Risks Related to Our Securities The limited market for our securities could make trading more difficult or more expensive. Trading in our common stock is conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which was established for securities that do not meet NASDAQ listing requirements. We cannot assure you of an active public market for our common stock. Consequently, trading our common stock may be more difficult because of lower trading volumes, transaction delays, and reduced security analyst and news media coverage. These factors also could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock than might otherwise prevail. The market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. The price of our common stock may fluctuate, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price paid for the stock. The price of our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including: • the extremely limited “float” in the public market; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of companies in the airline industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of financial market analysts; • regulatory changes affecting the airline industry; • investor perceptions of our industry, in general, and our company, in particular; • passenger concerns about the safety of air travel, in general, and public perceptions of our company, in particular; • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; • general economic conditions and trends; • major catastrophic events; • loss of external funding sources; • sales of large blocks of our stock or sales by insiders; or • departures of key personnel. A decline in the market price of our common stock could cause you to lose some or all of your investment and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees and raise capital. In addition, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. We are controlled by our Chairman and President. Our Chairman of the Board and President, Douglas G. Voss, beneficially owns 4,160,247 shares of our outstanding common stock, representing approximately 46.4% of our outstanding shares. As a result, Mr. Voss may be able to control our company and direct our affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. 18 Table of Contents This concentration of ownership could also delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company, and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without Mr. Voss’ support. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other share purchases that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our securities. As a result, this concentration of ownership could depress the price of our securities. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls remediated timely. In the event we identify control deficiencies that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and the trading price of our common stock and our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer. We are restricted from paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, we are restricted from paying dividends under the current terms of our debt instruments. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for investors in our common stock for the foreseeable future. Provisions in our credit agreement restrict us from issuing preferred stock, merging with or acquiring another entity or modifying any of our organizational documents. Our current credit agreement restricts us from issuing preferred stock or amending, modifying or waiving any term or provision of our organizational documents, including our articles of incorporation, certificates of designation pertaining to preferred stock, by-laws, or other operating agreement in any manner adverse to our current lenders without their prior consent. Our credit agreement also restricts us from participating in any merger or acquisition activity that would be adverse to our current lenders without their prior consent. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our common stock and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 