Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings and public disclosures. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We operate in highly competitive industries, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully in such industries. The industries in which we operate are intensely competitive. Established companies, both domestic and foreign, compete with us in each of our product lines. Some of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do and may price their products very aggressively. In addition, these competitors may be willing to operate at a less profitable level than at which we would expect to operate. Our significant competitors include, among others: JEOL Ltd., Hitachi High Technologies Corporation and Carl Zeiss SMT A.G. In addition, some of our competitors have formed collaborative relationships and otherwise may cooperate with each other. Our customers must make a substantial investment to install and integrate capital equipment into their laboratories and process applications. As a result, once a manufacturer has selected a particular vendor’s capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies on that equipment for a specific production line or process control application and frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendor. Accordingly, if a particular customer selects a competitor’s capital equipment, we expect to experience difficulty selling to that customer for a significant period of time. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside of our control, including: • price; • product quality; • breadth of product line; • system performance; • ease of use; • cost of ownership; • global technical service and support; • success in developing or otherwise introducing new products; and • foreign currency fluctuations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully on these or other factors, which could negatively impact our revenues, gross margins and net income in the future. Because many of our shipments occur in the last month of a quarter, we are at risk of one or more transactions not being delivered according to forecast. We have historically shipped approximately 75% of our products in the last month of each quarter. As any one shipment may be significant to meeting our quarterly sales projection, any slippage of shipments into a subsequent quarter may result in our not meeting our quarterly sales projection, which may adversely impact our results of operations for the quarter. 9 Table of Contents Because we have significant operations outside of the U.S., we are subject to political, economic and other international conditions that could result in increased operating expenses and regulation of our products and increased difficulty in maintaining operating and financial controls. Because a significant portion of our operations occur outside of the U.S., our revenues and expenses are impacted by foreign economic and regulatory conditions. In each of the last three years, more than 61% of our sales came from outside of the U.S. We have manufacturing facilities in Brno, Czech Republic and Eindhoven, The Netherlands and sales offices in many other countries. Moreover, we operate in over 50 countries, 23 with a direct presence. Some of our global operations are geographically isolated, are distant from corporate headquarters and/or have little infrastructure support. Therefore, maintaining and enforcing operating and financial controls can be difficult. Failure to maintain or enforce controls could have a material adverse effect on our control over service inventories, quality of service, customer relationships and financial reporting. Our exposure to the business risks presented by foreign economies will increase to the extent we continue to expand our global operations. International operations will continue to subject us to a number of risks, including: • longer sales cycles; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • price and currency exchange rates and controls; • taxes and tariffs; • export restrictions; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • travel and transportation difficulties resulting from actual or perceived health risks (e.g., SARS and avian or swine influenza); • changes in the regulatory environment in countries where we do business could lead to delays in the importation of products into those countries; • the implementation and administration of the Control of Electronic Information Products (often referred to as China RoHS) regulations could lead to delays in the importation of products into China; • political and economic instability (e.g. Thai riots, Mexican crimewave, unrest in Egypt); • risk of failure of internal controls and failure to detect unauthorized transactions; and • potential labor unrest. The industries in which we sell our products are cyclical, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our business depends in large part on the capital expenditures of customers within our Electronics, Research and Industry and Life Sciences market segments, which, along with Service and Components sales, accounted for the following amounts (in thousands) and percentages of our net sales for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Electronics $ 222,795 35.1 % $ 126,417 21.9 % Research and Industry 182,430 28.8 % 231,462 40.1 % Life Sciences 74,555 11.8 % 81,824 14.2 % Service and Components 154,442 24.3 % 137,641 23.8 % $ 634,222 100.0 % $ 577,344 100.0 % 10 Table of Contents The largest sub-parts of the Electronics market segment are the semiconductor and data storage industries. These industries are cyclical and have experienced significant economic downturns at various times in the last decade. Such downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices and production overcapacity. A downturn in one or both of these industries, or the businesses of one or more of our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning with the second half of 2007, we experienced significant variability in bookings and revenue in our Electronics segment due to the downturn in the spending cycle in the semiconductor and data storage industry. The semiconductor capital equipment market recovered in 2010, but the duration of the recovery is uncertain. General global economic conditions may be beginning to stabilize, but economic recovery is tentative and its strength is unknown. During downturns, our sales and gross profit margins generally decline. The Research and Industry market segment is also affected by overall economic conditions, but is not as cyclical as the Electronics market segment. The Life Sciences market segment is a smaller and still emerging market, and the tools we sell into that market often have average selling prices ranging from $0.5 million to over $4.0 million. Consequently, loss of demand among a relatively small group of potential customers can have a material impact on the overall demand for our products. As a result, movement of a small number of sales from one quarter to the next could cause significant variability in quarter-to-quarter growth rates, even as we believe that this market has the potential for long-term growth. A significant portion of our Life Sciences and Research and Industry revenue is dependent on government investments in research and development of new technology. To the extent that governments, especially in Europe or the U.S., reduce their spending in response to budget deficits and debt limitations, demand for our products could be affected. To date, we have not seen an impact from such actions. The funding cycles for our customers tend to extend over multiple quarters and several countries have reaffirmed their commitment to scientific research, but the longer-term impact of potential government fiscal austerity measures on our growth rate cannot be determined at this time. In addition, institutional endowments and philanthropy, which are a source of funding of some customer purchases, are threatened by the recent volatility in capital markets worldwide. As a capital equipment provider, our revenues depend in large part on the spending patterns of our customers, who could delay expenditures or cancel orders in reaction to variations in their businesses or general economic conditions. Because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, we have a limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to revenue shortfalls. In a prolonged economic downturn, we may not be able to reduce our significant fixed costs, such as manufacturing overhead, capital equipment or research and development costs, which may cause our gross margins to erode and our net loss to increase or earnings to decline. Our acquisition and investment strategy subjects us to risks associated with evaluating and pursuing these opportunities and integrating these businesses. In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also may seek to acquire new technologies or operations from external sources. As part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or make significant debt and equity investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions can involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with the integration of the operations and personnel, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the possible write-downs of impaired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to effectively manage any of these risks could seriously harm our business. Additionally, difficulties in integrating any potential acquisitions into our internal control structure could result in a failure of our internal control over financial reporting, which, in turn, could create a material weakness. To the extent we make investments in entities that we control, or have significant influence in, our financial results will reflect our proportionate share of the financial results of the entity. 11 Table of Contents We may suffer manufacturing capacity limitations on occasion. As the global economic environment recovers from the downturn and orders increase, we may not be able to ramp our manufacturing capacity and supply chain fast enough to keep pace with order intake for every product line offered. As a consequence, our ability to realize revenue on orders may be delayed or, in some cases, reduced and we may suffer cancellations. If our customers cancel or reschedule orders or if an anticipated order for even one of our systems is not received in time to permit shipping during a certain fiscal period, our operating results for that fiscal period may fluctuate and our business and financial results for such period could be materially and adversely affected. Cancellation risks rise in periods of economic downturn. Our customers are able to cancel or reschedule orders, generally with limited or no penalties, depending on the product’s stage of completion. The amount of purchase orders at any particular date, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of sales to be made in any given period. Our build cycle, or the time it takes us to build a product to customer specifications, typically ranges from one to six months. During this period, the customer may cancel the order, although generally we will be entitled to receive a cancellation fee based on the agreed-upon shipment schedule. The risks of cancellation are higher during times of economic downturn, such as the U.S. and global economies are presently experiencing. In addition, we derive a substantial portion of our net sales in any fiscal period from the sale of a relatively small number of high-priced systems, with a large portion in the last month of the quarter. Further, in some cases, our customers have to make changes to their facilities to accommodate the site requirements for our systems and may reschedule their orders because of the time required to complete these facility changes. This is particularly true of our high-performance TEMs. As a result, the timing of revenue recognition for a single transaction could have a material effect on our revenue and results of operations for a particular fiscal period. Due to these and other factors, our net revenues and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future on a quarterly and annual basis. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters our results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. Due to our extensive international operations and sales, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the euro. For 2010 and 2009, approximately 30% to 40% of our revenue was denominated in euros, while more than half of our expenses were denominated in euros, Czech Koruna, or other foreign currencies. Particularly as a result of this imbalance, changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, principally the euro, Czech Koruna and Japanese Yen, can impact our revenues, gross margins, results of operations and cash flows. We undertake hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in the dollar/euro exchange rate. The hedges are designed to protect us as the dollar weakens but also provide us with some flexibility if the dollar strengthens. We use option contracts and zero cost collars in an effort to reduce the exposure of our cash flows to exchange rate movements. These contracts are considered derivatives. We are required to carry all open derivative contracts on our balance sheet at fair value. When specific accounting criteria have been met, derivative contracts can be designated as hedging instruments and changes in fair value related to these derivative contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income, rather than net income, until the underlying hedged transaction affects net income, which is at the time the gains or losses related to the derivatives are recorded in cost of goods sold. We are required to record changes in fair value for derivatives not designated as hedges in net income in the current period. Our ability to designate derivative contracts as hedges significantly reduces the volatility in our operating results due to changes in the fair value of the derivative contracts. 12 Table of Contents Achieving hedge designation is based on evaluating the effectiveness of the derivative contracts’ ability to mitigate the foreign currency exposure of the linked transaction. We are required to monitor the effectiveness of all new and open derivative contracts designated as hedges on a quarterly basis. We recorded a $117,000 and a $1.3 million charge, respectively, for hedge ineffectiveness related to our cash flow hedges in 2010 and 2009 as a result of currency fluctuations. Failure to meet the hedge accounting requirements could result in the requirement to record deferred and current realized and unrealized gains and losses into net income in the current period. This failure could result in significant fluctuations in operating results. In addition, we will continue to recognize unrealized gains and losses related to the changes in fair value of derivative contracts not designated as hedges in the current period net income. Accordingly, the related impact to operating results may be recognized in a different period than the foreign currency impact of the hedged transaction. We also enter into foreign forward exchange contracts that are designed to partially mitigate the impact of specific cash, receivables or payables positions denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency losses recorded in other income (expense), inclusive of the impact of derivatives which are not designated as hedges, totaled $1.2 million and $3.6 million, respectively, in 2010 and 2009. We seek to mitigate derivative credit risk by transacting with highly rated counterparties. We have evaluated the credit and non-performance risks associated with our derivative counterparties and believe them to be insignificant and not warranting a credit adjustment at December 31, 2010. The recent extreme volatility of dollar-euro exchange rates has also made it more difficult for us to deploy our hedging program and create effective hedges. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The global economy is suffering an extended slowdown with a high rate of unemployment, especially in developed countries, and the future economic climate may continue to be less favorable than that of the past. This slowdown has, and could further lead to, reduced consumer and business spending in the foreseeable future, including by our customers, and the purchasers of their products and services. If such spending continues to slow down or decrease, our industry, business and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Also, in times of economic distress, hardship, bankruptcy and insolvency among our customers could increase. This may make it more difficult to collect on receivables. Gross margins on our products vary between product lines and markets and, accordingly, changes in product mix will affect our results of operations. If a higher portion of our net sales in any given period have lower gross margins, our overall gross margins and earnings would be negatively affected. For example, during 2008 and 2009, our net sales contained a smaller portion of sales from our relatively higher margin products within the Electronics segment, which contributed to a decrease in our overall gross margins as compared to 2007. Our Electronics business, which ultimately depends on consumers who buy electronic devices, recovered strongly in 2010, but the duration of the recovery is uncertain. To the extent that the recovery in this market segment slows or stalls, our overall margins may be negatively affected. Our business is complex, and changes to the business may not achieve their desired benefits. Our business is based on a myriad of technologies, encompassed in multiple different product lines, addressing various customers in a range of markets in different regions of the world. A business of our breadth and complexity requires significant management time, attention and resources. In addition, significant changes to our business, such as changes in manufacturing, operations, product lines, market 13 Table of Contents focus or organizational structure or focus, can be distracting, time-consuming and expensive. These changes can have short-term adverse effects on our financial results. In addition, the complexity of product lines and diversity of our customer base creates manufacturing planning and control challenges that may lead to higher costs of materials and labor, increased service costs, delayed shipments and excessive inventory. Failure to effectively manage these manufacturing issues may materially impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. A portion of our manufacturing operations are going to be relocated between existing facilities or outsourced to third-parties, which will involve significant costs and the risk of operational interruption. We are currently implementing a plan to shift manufacturing for certain products to other of our factories and third parties in the U.S. Moving product manufacturing includes, among others, the following risks: • failing to transfer product knowledge from one site to another or to a third party; • unanticipated additional costs connected to such moves; • delay or failure in being able to build the transferred product at the new sites; • unanticipated additional labor and materials costs related to such moves; • logistical issues arising from the moves; and • potential vendor problems. Any of these factors could cause us to miss product orders, cause a decline in product quality and completeness, damage our reputation, increase costs of goods sold or decrease revenue and gross margins. Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and cut costs, we have been outsourcing aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and we continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, and replacement manufacturers may be unavailable, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customer orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. Moreover, delays could cause us to suffer penalties with our customers, which could also impact our profitability. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide parts and components. Failure of any of these suppliers to provide us with quality products in a timely manner could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. Failure of critical suppliers of parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to us in a timely and cost-effective manner could negatively affect our business, including our ability to convert backlog into revenue. Although we use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture and support of our products, some key parts may only be obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. In particular, we rely on: VDL Enabling Technologies Group, AP Tech, Frencken Mechatronics B.V., Sanmina-SCI Corporation and AZD Praha SRO for our supply of mechanical parts and subassemblies; Gatan, Inc. for critical accessory products; and Neways Electronics, N.V. for some of our electronic subassemblies. In addition, some of our suppliers rely on sole suppliers. As a result of this concentration of key suppliers, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we do not timely and cost-effectively receive a sufficient quantity of quality parts to meet our production requirements or if we are required to find alternative suppliers for these supplies. We may not be able to expand our supplier group or to reduce our dependence on single suppliers. If our suppliers are not able to meet our supply requirements, constraints 14 Table of Contents may affect our ability to deliver products to customers in a timely manner, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, restrictions regulating the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment in various jurisdictions may impact parts and component availability or our electronics suppliers’ ability to source parts and components in a timely and cost-effective manner. Overall, because we only have a few equipment suppliers, we may be more exposed to future cost increases for this equipment. Our service business depends on our ability to reliably supply replacement parts and consumables to our customers and failure to deliver high quality parts and consumables in a timely manner could cause our service business to suffer; we also depend on remote Internet tool diagnostics which could result in security breaches. Our service business addresses a large and diverse install base of over 5,000 tools involving diverse products of varying ages, configurations, use cases, condition, and customer requirements that are dispersed in approximately 50 countries around the globe. Providing logistical support for delivery of spare parts and consumables to these tools, particularly the older tools, can be difficult. We have attempted to address the complexity of our service requirements, in part, through a remote diagnostics system that allows us to remotely access tools through a virtual private network. If we are unable to effectively manage and support the supply and delivery of spare parts and consumables to our customers we may damage our reputation and service business. Moreover, if we suffer an unauthorized intrusion into the virtual private network providing for remote diagnostics, we, or our customers, may suffer a loss of proprietary information that could create liability for us and undermine our business. We depend on certain business processes for order entry and failure to adhere to those processes could impair our ability to properly book and fulfill orders. We use business processes, including automated systems, to enter and track customer orders. Failure to adhere to these processes could result in errors in bookings and discounts on tool sales. Further, inaccurate booking information could lead to delays in shipping and having to rework orders. These problems could, in turn, cause reduced margins and delayed revenue. Our sales contracts often require delivery of multiple elements with complex terms and conditions that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. Our system sales contracts are complex and often include multiple elements such as delivery of more than one system, installation obligations (sometimes for multiple tools), accessories and/or service contracts, as well as provisions for customer acceptance. Typically, we recognize revenue as the various elements are delivered to the customer or the related services are provided. However, certain of these contracts have complex terms and conditions or technical specifications that require us to deliver most, or sometimes all, elements under the contract before revenue can be recognized. This could result in a significant delay between production and delivery of products and when revenue is recognized, which may cause volatility in, or adversely impact, our quarterly results of operations and cash flows. The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in the loss of significant net revenues. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our net revenues, although no customer has accounted for more than 10% of total annual net revenues in the recent past. Our business will be seriously harmed if we do not generate as much revenue as we expect from these key customers, if we experience a loss of any of our key customers or if we suffer a substantial reduction in orders from these customers. Our ability to continue to generate revenues from our key customers will depend on our ability to introduce new products that are desirable to these customers. 15 Table of Contents If third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies that may be included in some of our products. In addition, some of our customers may use our products for applications that are similar to those covered by these patents. From time to time, we, and our respective customers, have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as sold by us or used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Any claim of infringement from a third party, even one without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from running the business. As described in more detail in the section entitled “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” one of our competitors, Hitachi, has filed multiple actions against our subsidiary, FEI Japan, in Japanese courts and with Japanese customs. Based on information available to us, we believe that we have meritorious defenses against these actions and we intend to vigorously defend our interests in these matters. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could prohibit us from selling one or more products in Japan, and could include monetary damages. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling, or if we are unable to negotiate a satisfactory settlement in this matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our competitors or other entities may assert infringement claims against us or our customers in the future with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property rights of others. Additionally, if claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we become subject to additional infringement claims, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, these potential infringement claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have fixed debt obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to adjust our business to respond to competitive pressures and to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our future manufacturing capacity and research and development needs. As of December 31, 2010, we had total convertible long-term debt of $89.0 million due in 2013. In addition, we have a secured credit line for $100.0 million and also have access to a $50.0 million yen unsecured uncommitted bank borrowing facility in Japan. However, no amounts were outstanding on these credit facilities at December 31, 2010. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including but not limited to the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may be limited; • our credit line contains numerous restrictive covenants, which, if not adhered to, could result in the cancellation of the entire line; • our shareholders may be further diluted if holders of all or a portion of our outstanding 2.875% subordinated convertible notes elect to convert their notes, up to a maximum aggregate of 3,032,777 shares of our common stock. These shares were not included in our diluted share count for 2009 or 2008 because they were antidilutive, but were included in 2010; and • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to pay interest and principal on our debt securities, to satisfy our other debt obligations and to make planned expenditures will be dependent on our future operating performance, which could be affected by changes in economic conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our debt instruments could result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under such instruments and in some cases acceleration of debt under other instruments that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Restructuring activities may be disruptive to our business and financial performance. Any delay or failure by us to execute planned cost reductions could also be disruptive and could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. We have initiated various corporate wide restructuring and infrastructure improvement programs in order to increase operational efficiency, reduce costs as well as balance the effects of currency fluctuations on our financial results. These actions have historically included reductions of work-force as well as the costs to migrate portions of our supply chain to dollar-linked contracts. Restructuring could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in other respects as well. This includes potential disruption of manufacturing operations, our supply chain and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Loss of sales, service and engineering talent, in particular, could damage our business. The restructuring will require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing our plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. Some of our employees work in areas, such as Europe and Asia, where workforce reductions are highly regulated, and this could slow the implementation of planned workforce reductions. It is also the case that our restructuring plans may fail to achieve the stated aims for reasons similar to those described in the prior paragraph. During the course of executing the restructuring, we could incur material non-cash charges such as write-downs of inventories or other tangible assets. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually or when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. If we record an impairment charge as a result of this analysis, it could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers may stop purchasing our products at any time, which makes it difficult to forecast our results of operations and to plan expenditures accordingly. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Accordingly: • customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty; • customers may cancel orders that they previously placed; • customers may purchase products from our competitors; • we are exposed to competitive pricing pressure on each order; and • customers are not required to make minimum purchases. If we do not succeed in obtaining new sales orders from new and existing customers, our results of operations will be negatively impacted. 17 Table of Contents Many of our projects are funded under federal, state and local government contracts and if we are found to have violated the terms of the government contracts or applicable statutes and regulations, we are subject to the risk of suspension or debarment from government contracting activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Many of our projects are funded under federal, state and local government contracts worldwide. Government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable laws and contract provisions. As a result of our government contracting, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. Further, if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from government contracting or subcontracting, including federally funded projects at the state level. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended from government work, we could suffer the loss of the contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes and fluctuations in government spending priorities could adversely affect our revenue. Because a significant part of our overall business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of worldwide federal and local government regulatory and infrastructure priorities, shifts in these priorities due to changes in policy imperatives or economic conditions or government administration, which are often unpredictable, may affect our revenues. Political instability in key regions around the world coupled with the U.S. government’s commitment to military related expenditures put at risk federal discretionary spending, including spending on nanotechnology research programs and projects that are of particular importance to our business. Also, changes in U.S. Congressional appropriations practices could result in decreased funding for some of our customers. At the state and local levels, the need to compensate for reductions in federal matching funds, as well as financing of federal unfunded mandates, creates strong pressures to cut back on research expenditures as well. A potential reduction of federal funding may adversely affect our business. Moreover, due to the world-wide economic downturn, many state and national governments are seeing significant declines in tax revenue, while also seeing increased demand for services. This could reduce the money available to our potential customers from government funding sources that could be used to purchase our products and services. In February 2009, the U.S. Congress passed the American Recovery and Reconstruction Act (the “ARRA”), which included approximately $15 billion of additional stimulus funding for agencies which are our customers, or which fund some of our customers. A portion of these funds could be allocated to scientific equipment purchases. Less than 3% and 10% of our orders in 2010 and the second half of 2009, respectively, were funded by the ARRA. We do not expect significant orders from this funding source in 2011. We have long sales cycles for our systems, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our sales cycle can be 12 months or longer and is unpredictable. Variations in the length of our sales cycle could cause our net sales and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations, operating margins and cash flows, to fluctuate widely from period to period. These variations could be based on factors partially or completely outside of our control. The length of time it takes us to complete a sale depends on many factors, including: • the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives; • changes in the composition of our sales force, including the departure of senior sales personnel; • the history of previous sales to a customer; 18 Table of Contents • the complexity of the customer’s manufacturing processes; • the introduction, or announced introduction, of new products by our competitors; • the economic environment; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; and • the capital expenditure budget cycle of the customer. Our sales cycle also extends in situations where the sale involves developing new applications for a system or technology. As a result of these and a number of other factors that could influence sales cycles with particular customers, the period between initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from that customer, if we ever do, may vary widely. The loss of key management or our inability to attract and retain managerial, engineering and other technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attracting qualified personnel is difficult, and our recruiting efforts may not be successful. Specifically, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. The market for qualified engineers is very competitive. In addition, experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the technology industry are in high demand, and competition for such talent is intense. The loss of key personnel, or our inability to attract key personnel, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers experience rapid technological changes, with which we must keep pace. We may be unable to properly ascertain new market needs, or introduce new products responsive to those needs, on a timely and cost-effective basis. Customers in each of our market segments experience rapid technological change that requires new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive depends in large part on our ability to understand these changes and develop, in a timely and cost-effective manner, new and enhanced systems at competitive prices that respond to, and accurately predict, new market requirements. We may fail to ascertain and respond to the needs of our customers or fail to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that meet their needs, which could adversely affect our financial position. In addition, new product introductions or enhancements by competitors could cause a decline in our sales or a loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Increased competitive pressure also could lead to intensified price competition, resulting in lower margins, which could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced systems depends on a variety of factors, including: • selection and development of product offerings; • timely and efficient completion of product design and development; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing processes; • effective sales, service and marketing functions; and • product performance. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate both the future demand for products under development and the equipment required to produce such products. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or in enhancing existing products. On occasion, certain product and application developments have taken longer than expected. These delays can have an adverse affect on product shipments and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The process of developing new high technology capital equipment products and services is complex and uncertain, and failure to accurately anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, to complete engineering and development projects in a timely manner and to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will result in products that the market will accept. To the extent that a market does not develop for a new product, we may decide to discontinue or modify the product. These actions could involve significant costs and/or require us to take charges in future periods. If these products are accepted by the marketplace, sales of our new products may cannibalize sales of our existing products. Further, after a product is developed, we must be able to manufacture sufficient volume quickly and at low cost. To accomplish this objective, we must accurately forecast production volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements. If we are not successful in making accurate forecasts, our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. In addition, new product launches are costly and may not always prove to be successful. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our Phenom product line as it did not deliver the level of revenues we had originally forecast. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights, especially in foreign countries, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our success depends in large part on the protection of our proprietary rights. We incur significant costs to obtain and maintain patents and defend our intellectual property. We also rely on the laws of the U.S. and other countries where we develop, manufacture or sell products to protect our proprietary rights. We may not be successful in protecting these proprietary rights, these rights may not provide the competitive advantages that we expect or other parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent these rights. Further, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as they are in the U.S. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in foreign countries. For 2010, we derived more than 67% of our sales from countries outside of the U.S. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these countries, our business may be materially adversely affected. Infringement of our proprietary rights could result in weakened capacity to compete for sales and increased litigation costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which would impact our financial position. As a corporation with operations both in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant fluctuation from one period to the next as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous foreign tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize recorded deferred tax assets; • changes in uncertain tax positions, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • changes in tax rates and laws or the interpretation of such laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 20 Table of Contents We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to both income and non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of these audits. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Many of our current and planned products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors that can only be detected after installation, which may harm our reputation and damage our business. Our products are highly complex, and our extensive product development, manufacturing and testing processes may not be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could impact customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. As a result, we could have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products after they are shipped. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers and other losses to us or to our customers. These occurrences could also result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Some of our systems use hazardous gases and emit x-rays, which, if not properly contained, could result in property damage, bodily injury and death. A product safety failure, such as a hazardous gas or x-ray leak or extreme pressure release, could result in substantial liability and could also significantly damage customer relationships and our reputation and disrupt future sales. Moreover, remediation could require redesign of the tools involved, creating additional expense, increasing tool costs and damaging sales. In addition, the matter could involve significant litigation that would divert management time and resources and cause unanticipated legal expense. Further, if such a leak or release involved violation of health and safety laws, we may suffer substantial fines and penalties in addition to the other damage suffered. Natural disasters, catastrophic events, terrorist acts and acts of war may seriously harm our business and revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, telecommunications failures, power interruptions, water shortages, closure of transport routes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics, terrorist acts, acts of war and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions. For many of these events we carry no insurance. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. The impact of such events could be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies as a result of our significant international presence. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located on the Pacific coast, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults. We rely on major logistics hubs, primarily in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to manufacture and distribute our products and to move products to customers in various regions. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including those described above. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a catastrophic event. 21 Table of Contents Unforeseen health, safety and environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances that are regulated by various federal, state and international laws governing health, safety and the environment. We could be subject to liability if we do not handle these substances in compliance with safety standards for storage and transportation and applicable laws. We will record a liability for any costs related to health, safety or environmental remediation when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad, and the U.S. Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign customers. We are subject to export control laws that limit which products we sell and where and to whom we sell our products. Moreover, export licenses are required from government agencies for some of our products in accordance with various statutory authorities, including U.S. statutes such as the Export Administration Act of 1979, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976. Depending on the shipment, we are also subject to Dutch or Czech law regarding export controls and licensing requirements. We may not be successful in obtaining these necessary licenses in order to conduct business abroad. Failure to comply with applicable export controls or the termination or significant limitation on our ability to export certain of our products would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may affect how we conduct our business. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New rules, changes to existing rules, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or change the way we conduct our business. Provisions of our charter documents, our shareholder rights plan and Oregon law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, the Oregon Control Share Act and the Oregon Business Combination Act limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of our Board of Directors, may deter efforts to obtain control of us and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 