ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Due to the geographic concentration of our Inns, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. All of our Inns are located in the southeastern and midwestern United States. At December 31, 2005, approximately 20.4% of our total rooms were located in Georgia (all of which are Jameson Inns) and approximately 17.2% of our total rooms were located in Indiana (this includes both Jameson Inns and Signature Inns). For the foreseeable future we will continue to have a concentration in those two regions of the country. As a result, our Inns are subject to the effects of adverse economic and competitive conditions and trends in those regions and markets, and we will face a greater risk of a negative impact on our revenues in the event these areas are more severely impacted by adverse economic and competitive conditions than other areas in the United States. The concentration of Inns in one region or in a limited number of markets may expose us to risks of adverse economic developments which are greater than if our portfolio were more geographically diverse. These economic developments include regional economic downturns, significant increases in the number of our competitors’ properties in these markets and higher local property, sales and income taxes in the geographic markets in which we are concentrated. This geographic concentration also makes us more vulnerable to local and regional occurrences such as seasonal factors and natural disasters. Any of these could cause a reduction or decline in our revenues and cash flow. Our hotel refurbishment and rebranding for our Signature Inns may be more costly than we anticipate. We intend to refurbish and rebrand all of our Signature Inns in continuing operations. These projects are subject to a number of risks, including construction delays and cost overruns. Also, we may elect to expand the scope of the refurbishment as we did on certain of the recently completed rebranding projects, which would increase the costs. In this regard, we expanded our original capital budget for 2005 by $5.0 million, to $19.0 8 Table of Contents million from $14.0 million, to cover the costs of the additional work we decided to do in connection with the Signature Inns that we converted in 2005. Additional financing for future refurbishments and conversions may not be available or, even if available, may not be on favorable terms. Any unanticipated delays or expenses incurred in connection with the refurbishment or rebranding of the Signature Inns could impact expected revenues, negatively affect our reputation among hotel guests and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred a substantial amount of debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, all of which increases our expenses and the risks of unprofitable operations. Our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $195.0 million, of which approximately $94.1 million has adjustable rates. Most of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by individual or a group of Inns. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our outstanding indebtedness had a weighted average annual interest rate of 6.3%. Our ratio of long-term debt (including current portion) to equity was 2.41 to 1. Neither our articles of incorporation nor our bylaws limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Subject to limitations in our debt instruments, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance renovations and acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. Our board of directors has adopted a policy of limiting our mortgage debt to 65% of the aggregate value of the Inns we own, based on the most recent appraisals we have, however that policy could be changed at any time. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could reduce our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions (including increases in interest rates) and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Our indebtedness is, and will likely continue to be, secured primarily by mortgages on our owned Inns. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets, including our owned Inns, to foreclosure. Adverse economic conditions could cause the terms on which borrowings become available to be unfavorable to us. In such circumstances, if we are in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more owned Inns at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on our investments. Economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase debt service requirements on variable rate debt and could reduce the amount of cash available for various corporate purposes. We have a substantial amount of debt maturing in the next three years. At December 31, 2005, we had scheduled aggregate principal payments and maturing loans of approximately $6.1 million, $25.9 million, and $12.6 million, respectively, for each of the next three years. If we are unable to successfully negotiate renewal or extensions of that debt or obtain refinancing on favorable terms, we may be forced to sell assets or lose Inns to foreclosure. Our lack of industry diversification makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns. We currently, and intend in the future to, invest primarily in lodging properties. This concentration of our investments in a single industry segment makes us more vulnerable to adverse effects of occurrences such as economic downturns. A weakness in the economy or a downturn in the lodging industry in general or in the economy and mid-scale segment in particular could have a more significant effect on the operations of our Inns and, therefore, on revenues and cash flow than if our investments were more economically diverse. Our franchising program depends upon third party owners/operators who may not fulfill their franchising obligations, including failing to make timely payments to us and failing to maintain quality control consistent with the Jameson Inn standards. The success of our franchising program is in large part dependent upon the manner in which our franchisees adhere to their respective franchise agreements and our operating standards, which include: • timely payment of royalties and other fees; 9 Table of Contents • commitment to our “Perfect Stay Guarantee” and frequent guest loyalty program; • ongoing capital expenditures and maintenance; and • proper usage and protection of the Jameson Inn brand and related trademarks. At December 31, 2005, we were not aware of any defaults by franchisees in their contracts with us. In addition, while we have contractual controls over each franchisee, we do not have control over the day-to-day operations of franchisees. As a result, third party franchisees may not appropriately use and protect our Jameson Inn brand, which may decrease its value or expose it to legal challenges, which, in turn, could subject us to substantial loss and expense. Approximately 6.1% of the total rooms in our system are owned and operated by our franchisees. The fees and other revenues we received from our franchising operations during 2005 represent less than 1% of our total revenues for that period. Our business could be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our management team. Our seven senior executives have more than 117 years of combined experience in the lodging industry. While we believe we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could hurt our efforts to conduct our operations in an effective and efficient manner. We currently own and are the beneficiary of key person life insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for Thomas W. Kitchin, our chairman and chief executive officer. We have common stock ownership limitations in our articles of incorporation which could restrict the marketability or liquidity of our common stock. In connection with our election in 1994 to be taxed as a REIT we included certain ownership restrictions in our articles of incorporation to assist us in our efforts to qualify as a REIT. When we were subject to the REIT rules, not more than 50% of our common stock could be owned by five or fewer individuals. Our articles of incorporation were prepared to assure compliance with these rules and provide that Thomas W. Kitchin cannot own more than 20.75% of our outstanding shares of common stock, American Real Estate Company cannot own more than 9% of outstanding shares and no other stockholder may own more than 6.75% of our outstanding shares. These restrictions apply to ownership by individuals, so ownership by an entity is attributed to the individual owners of the entity in proportion to their ownership in the entity. In order to comply with REIT rules regarding related party relationships, any person owning 10% or more of an entity from whom we derive gross income may not own more than 9.9% of our common stock. The board of directors has the power to grant a waiver of the ownership limit or the related party limit upon application by a stockholder. Since our status as a REIT has been relinquished, these stock ownership restrictions are no longer needed. Our board of directors approved an amendment to our articles of incorporation to remove all of these provisions to the extent they are applicable to shares of our common stock. However, the proposed amendment was not approved by our stockholders at our annual meeting on June 4, 2004. Consequently, the ownership restrictions remain in place. It is possible that these restrictions could be enforced in the future in a manner that might discourage a change of control. Provisions in our charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could limit the price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for the shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; 10 Table of Contents • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal in nature, with the months from April through September generally accounting for a greater portion of annual revenues than the months from October through March. During the most recently completed three fiscal years, the lodging revenues we received during these months represented an average of 54% of our revenues for the entire year. Our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business increases our vulnerability to risks such as labor force shortages and cash flow problems. Further, if an adverse event such as an actual or threatened terrorist attack, international conflict, natural disaster, regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the months of April through September, the adverse impact to our revenues could likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. The costs of defending and paying claims asserted against us could be substantial and reduce the funds we would otherwise have available to meet our other working capital needs. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings and potential for insurance carrier coverage cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against us, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money. If this were to occur, it could weaken our financial condition and reduce our prospects for profitability. For the discussion of pending litigation, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We may experience material losses in excess of insurance coverage which could hurt our prospects for profitability. We carry comprehensive liability, public area liability, fire, flood, pollution, environmental, boiler and machinery, extended coverage and business interruption insurance covering our Inns in the aggregate of $326.2 million. There are, however, certain types of catastrophic losses that are not generally insured because it is not economically feasible to insure against such losses. Due to post-Katrina changes to the property insurance industry, we now have a $500,000 per occurrence wind deductible for Named Storms which applies to six of our owned Inns located in certain costal areas determined to be subject to increased risk of hurricane activity. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance coverage will not occur in the future. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an Inn, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the Inn. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Inn. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate an Inn after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed Inn. Risks Relating to the Lodging Industry Generally Our operating results are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control. Our revenues and operating results are subject to the various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control. These include: • changes in national, regional and local economic climates; 11 Table of Contents • over-building of hotels in our markets, which puts downward pressure on occupancy and revenues at our Inns because of the added competition; • actual and threatened terrorist attacks and international conflicts and their impact on travel; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; • the attractiveness of the Inns to consumers and competition from other hotels; • the quality and performance of the general managers operating our Inns; • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors such as increases in the price of energy, healthcare or insurance; • changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets; • ongoing repair and renovation of Inns which might result in business interruptions, delays and cost overruns; • other risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties, as we discuss in detail below. While indicators of improving industry fundamentals lead us to believe that demand for lodging services will increase during 2006, we are not able to assure you that the recent trend in these results will continue. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business may be materially harmed. The lodging industry is highly competitive. Competition in the industry is primarily based on service quality, range of services, brand name recognition, convenience of location, room rates, guest amenities, perceived values and quality of accommodations. We compete with other national limited and full service hotel companies as well as various regional and local hotels. Many of our competitors have a larger network of locations and greater brand awareness than we do. Each of our Inns is located in an area that has competing hotels. The more competitive hotels in a particular area, the more difficult it becomes to achieve a desirable occupancy rate and room rate. Many of our Inns are located in cities and communities in which significant new hotel and motel development has occurred in recent years. Our competitors may be able to accept more risk than we can manage prudently and may be able to borrow the funds needed to acquire hotels. Additionally, new and existing competitors may offer significantly lower rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract guests away from our Inns, resulting in a decrease in occupancy rates, average daily revenue (“ADR”) and RevPAR. Changes in demographics and other changes in our markets may also adversely impact the convenience or desirability of our Inn locations, thereby reducing occupancy, ADR and RevPAR and otherwise adversely impacting our results of operations and financial position. Our expenses may remain constant even if revenues decline, thus restricting our prospects for profitability. The expenses of owning property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in room revenues. Our Inns have certain fixed operating costs and an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. In such instances, our financial position and ability to service our indebtedness could be impaired by: • rising interest rate levels; • the availability of financing; and • the cost of compliance with current and future government regulations, including zoning and tax laws. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental regulations affecting the lodging industry; the costs of complying with governmental regulations, or our failure to comply with such regulations, could affect our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local government regulations affecting the lodging industry, including building and zoning requirements. Increased government regulation could require us to make unplanned expenditures and result in higher operating costs. Further, we are subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. An increase in the minimum wage rate, employee benefit costs or other costs associated with employees could increase expenses and result in lower operating margins. Under the ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to remove access barriers or make unplanned, substantial modifications to our Inns to comply with the ADA or to comply with other changes in governmental rules and regulations, which could reduce the number of total available rooms, increase operating costs and have a negative impact on revenues and earnings. Any failure to comply with ADA requirements or other governmental regulations could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damage awards against us. We believe that all existing Inns are in substantial compliance with these requirements and regulations and we intend to construct future Inns in accordance with these requirements. Failure of the U.S. lodging industry to exhibit continued improvement may impede our ability to execute our business plan. A substantial part of our business plan is based on our belief that the U.S. lodging markets will continue to benefit from the recent improving economic fundamentals. We cannot be sure as to whether, or to what extent lodging industry fundamentals will in fact continue to improve. In the event conditions in the industry do not continue to improve as we expect, our ability to execute our business plan may be impeded. The increasing use of third party travel websites by consumers may hurt our profitability. Some of the rooms at our Inns will be booked through third party travel websites such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. Revenues attributable to bookings through third party websites represented approximately 3% of our total lodging revenues for 2005 and 2004, respectively. If these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. We believe that these Internet intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation systems rather than to our brands. Although most of the business for our Inns is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be hurt. The uncertainty of future terrorist attacks and military actions may negatively impact the travel and lodging industries. We are unable to predict with certainty the impact that future terrorist attacks, events such as military or police activities in the United States or foreign countries and terrorist activities or threats of such activities, could have on our business. In addition, other terrorist attacks, acts of war, prolonged U.S. involvement in Iraq or other significant military activity could have additional adverse effects on the economy in general, and the travel and lodging industry in particular. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the markets on which shares of our common stock trade, the lodging industry in general, and our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The existence of mold in our owned Inns could result in substantial costs or restrictions on the use of our Inns. Some of our owned Inns could have problems with mold caused by excessive moisture, which accumulates in buildings or on building materials. Some molds are known to produce toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold can cause a variety of health effects and symptoms in certain individuals including allergic or other reactions. We have been able to remediate the mold presence discovered in our owned Inns without material cost. However, we may incur substantial remediation costs and lost revenues during any remediation process if we discover mold in our other owned Inns, or if the costs related to mold such as legal and insurance expense continue to increase rapidly, which, in turn, could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2005, none of our Inns had any significant presence of mold. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our inability to sell real estate when appropriate may hurt our financial condition. Real estate assets generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to sell our owned Inns or other real estate promptly in response to economic or other conditions. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our assets could hurt our financial position. In addition, sales of appreciated real property could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may make it disadvantageous for us to sell certain of our owned Inns. Risks associated with real estate ownership may restrict revenues or increase expenses. We are subject to varying degrees of risks that generally arise from the ownership of our Inns. Revenue from our Inns may be restricted or hurt by factors beyond our control, including the following: • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • changes in local real estate market conditions; • increases in interest rates, and other changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; • increases in property and other taxes; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and adverse changes in zoning laws and other regulations; and • compliance with environmental laws. An increase in interest rates or property and other taxes could increase expenses and restrict our cash flow. Adverse conditions such as those discussed above could cause the terms of our existing and future borrowings to become unfavorable to us. In such circumstances, if we were in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more Inns at times that might not permit realization of the maximum return on our investment. Unfavorable changes in one or more of these conditions could also result in unanticipated expenses and higher operating costs, thereby reducing operating margins and otherwise hurting our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Common Stock Ownership The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; 14 Table of Contents • changes in market valuations of companies in the hotel or real estate industries; • changes in expectations of future financial performance; • fluctuations in the stock market; • issuances of additional common stock or other securities in the future; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. It is possible that the proceeds from sales of our common stock by a shareholder may not equal or may even exceed the costs and fees associated with selling the stock. Substantial sales of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into our common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are eligible for immediate resale in the public market. We cannot predict whether future issuances of our common stock or resales in the open market will decrease the market price of our common stock. The exercise of any options or the vesting of any restricted stock granted to directors, executive officers and other employees under our stock incentive plans, the issuance of common stock or units in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of our common stock may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. Because we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock, our stock may be less desirable as an investment and have a lower market price than it might if we paid dividends. We do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to apply any available cash flow to repay indebtedness and to the expansion and development of our business. Our failure to pay dividends on our common stock may make it less desirable as an investment, thus having a depressive effect on its market price compared to what it might be if we did pay dividends. We may issue additional shares of common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes which could dilute other stockholders’ ownership of our common stock. The number of shares issuable upon conversion of our 7.0% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2010 could increase if we undergo a change of control on or before September 30, 2008 if at least 10% of the consideration received by our stockholders consists of cash or other property or securities which are not publicly traded. The number of additional shares that could be issued depends upon when such a change of control would become effective and the value per share of our common stock that our stockholders would receive in the transaction, with the number decreasing the longer the period until the effective date and the higher the value received by our stockholders as a result. For example, if a change of control were to become effective March 31, 2006 and the value our stockholders received was $2.26 per share, we would be obligated to issue an additional 4,258,520 shares (in addition to the 12,635,379 shares they would receive based upon the $2.77 conversion price presently applicable) if the holders of these notes elected to convert all of them. Our obligation to issue additional shares upon conversion of the notes based on such a change of control will terminate if the effective date is after September 30, 2008 or if the value received upon any such change of control effective on September 30, 2008 is $2.94 per share or more. The issuance of the additional shares to converting note holders in these circumstances would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders’ ownership of our common stock and the value that they might receive in such a transaction. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental risks that could be costly. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of compliance with future environmental legislation. Under current federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such contaminated property properly, may restrict the ability of the owner of the property to borrow using such property as collateral for a loan or to sell such property. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used or transferred or in which businesses may be operated, and may impose remedial or compliance costs. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we have not been notified by any governmental authority and we have no other knowledge of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental substances in connection with any of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will not discover problems that currently exist but to which we have no current knowledge, that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current environmental condition of our existing and future properties will not be affected by the condition of neighboring properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties (whether neighbors such as dry cleaners or others) unrelated to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 