Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, we believe that the following identify the most significant risk factors that could affect our business. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that we currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and your investment in us. 10 Current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital, and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States continue to adversely affect businesses access to capital as well as an increased cost of such capital. If the current economic conditions in the United States continue or become worse, our cost of debt and equity capital and the access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Pursuant to our line of credit agreement with a regional financial institution, we have access to up to $6,000,000, of which $1,950,000 is outstanding at April 30, 2011. Based on our calculated borrowing base of allowable accounts receivable and inventory as of April 30, 2011, there is an additional $2,761,000 of available funds for us to utilize on the line of credit. This line of credit expires in October 2012 and we plan to obtain additional one year extensions on the line of credit each year. We have discussed these proposed one year extensions on the line of credit with our lender on identical terms, but there can be no assurance that they will grant the extensions, and if they do, there can be no assurance that the terms of such extensions will not be on terms that are more burdensome and/or costly to us. To the extent that our lender fails to grant an extension of the line of credit or if the terms of any extension are more burdensome or costly, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Delays in development, introduction and shipment of new products or services may result in a decline in sales. We tailor specific technology solutions to our customer requirements wherever high quality, reliability, and innovation are essential. Significant technological, supplier, manufacturing or other problems may delay the development, introduction or production of these products or services. These problems could include: · technical problems in the development of new specific technology solutions; · inability to hire qualified personnel; and · delays or failures to perform by third parties involved in our development projects. Delays in the development, completion and shipment of new products or services, or failure of customers to accept new products, may result in a decline in sales. Dependence on key personnel Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees, including certain technical and marketing personnel. The competition for these individuals is significant; hence the loss of one or more of our key executives or employees (including if one or more of our officers or employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us), could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Dependence on a small number of customers We are dependent on a small number of original equipment manufacturer customers in our EDMS business segment. Our proprietary product line segment utilizes business partners worldwide to create integrated solutions with our hardware and our business partners’ software products. The Radix 11 and eXtremeTAG product lines rely on these business partner relationships more heavily than some of the other proprietary product lines which utilize our internal sales team and complement our sales and marketing efforts with external business partners. Accordingly, we are dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our largest OEM customers for our EDMS business segment and our business partners for its product line business segment. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers or business partners, and have often experienced reduced lead times in customer orders. Customers and business partners may cancel their orders, change production quantities, and delay production for a number of reasons. Our business partners may experience delays in their software development which may delay delivery of Radix and eXtremeTAG products. Uncertain economic conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers and business partners delaying the delivery of some of the products manufactured for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer, business partner, or by a group of customers and business partners have harmed, and may continue to harm, our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products manufactured, as well as by causing a delay in the recovery of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer and business partner orders and lower asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. Shortages of required electronic components or price increases could cause us to delay shipments to customers and reduce our sales and net income. We are dependent on certain suppliers, including limited and sole source suppliers, to provide key components we incorporate into our products. We may experience in the future, delays in component deliveries, which in turn could cause delays in product shipments to customers, result in reduced sales from and have an adverse effect on our relationship with the affected customer, and our reputation as a reliable service provider. In addition, component shortages, whether anticipated or not, can increase our cost of goods sold and therefore decrease our gross margin since we may be required to pay higher prices and premium charges for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. Additionally, we may purchase components in advance of our requirements for those components as a result of a threatened or anticipated shortage. In this event, we may incur additional inventory carrying costs, for which we may or may not recover from our customers. Such costs would reduce our gross margins and net income. Finally, the growing scarcity of such components may require us to look to second tier vendors or to procure components through brokers. Such components may be of lesser quality than those otherwise available and could cause us to incur costs to qualify such components or to replace them if they prove to be defective. Our supply chain may also be impacted by other events outside of our control, including macroeconomic events, political crises or natural or environmental occurrences. These shortages can result in an increase in component costs and lead to reduced gross margins over a short term period. The shortages resulting from these macroeconomic events may also lead to delays in shipments to customers which could damage our customer relationships over a longer-term period. 12 Operating results may vary significantly from period to period. We can experience fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and our results of operations for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future periods. Factors which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include: · increased competition · timing of new products introduced into the market · pricing changes by us or our competitors; · market acceptance or delays in the introduction of new products or services; · production constraints; · quality issues; · labor or material shortages; · the timing of significant orders; · the sales mix of products and services; · customers’ budgets; · adverse movements in interest rates or tax rates; · general economic conditions; and · cyclical nature of demand for customers’ products. Pursuit of business acquisitions could impair our financial position and profitability. We may pursue acquisitions of complementary technologies, product lines or businesses. Future acquisitions may include risks, the occurrence of which could have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. These risks include: · burdening management and our operating teams during the integration of the acquired entity or product line; · diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; · failing to successfully integrate the acquired products or business; · lack of acceptance of the acquired products by our sales channels or customers; · entering markets where management has no or limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired business; · the effect on our financial statements of the amortization of acquired intangible assets; · potential loss of customer base of acquired business; · the cost associated with acquisitions including our ability to secure capital to finance future acquisitions to the extent additional debt or equity is needed; and · assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our stock price and business. As a public company, we are subject to numerous governmental and stock exchange requirements, with which our management believes we are in compliance. In addition, if our management fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, our management may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with 13 Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for management to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If our management cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in the reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Our management’s failure to meet regulatory requirements and exchange listing standards may result in actions such as the delisting of our stock impacting the stock’s liquidity, SEC enforcement actions, and securities claims and litigation. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 