Risk Factors,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Risk Items Relating to Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for additional discussion of these factors. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. Changes may occur after that date, and the Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements except as required by law in the normal course of its public disclosure practices. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Great Lakes Aviation, Ltd. (Great Lakes or the Company) is a regional airline operating as an independent carrier and as a code share partner with United Air Lines, Inc. (United Air Lines or United) and Frontier Airlines, Inc. (Frontier Airlines or Frontier). As of February 28, 2007, the Company served nine states with 28 destinations to and from Denver, Colorado, four destinations to and from Phoenix, Arizona and two destinations to and from Albuquerque, New Mexico. General information about the Company can be found at www.flygreatlakes.com. The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through the Company’s web site as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed such reports with, or furnished them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on the Company’s web site is not incorporated into, nor a part of, this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings. Essential Air Service Program The Company derived approximately 27% of its total revenue from the Essential Air Service program (EAS) in 2006, which is administered by the United States Department of Transportation (the DOT). The EAS program was instituted under the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (the Deregulation Act), which allowed airlines greater freedom to introduce, increase, and generally reduce or eliminate service to existing markets. Under the EAS program, certain communities are guaranteed specified levels of “essential air service.” In order to promote the provision of essential air services, the DOT may authorize the payment of federal subsidies to compensate an air carrier that is providing essential air services in otherwise unprofitable or minimally profitable markets. An airline serving a community that qualifies for essential air services is required to give the DOT advance notice before the airline may terminate, suspend, or reduce service. Depending on the circumstances, the DOT may require the continuation of existing service until a replacement carrier is found. EAS rates are normally set for two-year contract periods for each city. Significant fluctuations in passenger revenues, as well as fluctuations in fuel and other costs, may cause EAS routes to become unprofitable during these two-year terms. At the end of the contract period for EAS service to a particular city, the DOT may request competitive proposals from other airlines. Proposals, when requested, are evaluated on, among other things, the level of service provided, the amount of subsidy requested, the fitness of the applicant, and comments from the communities served. Congress set the EAS funding level at $102 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and 2005, at $110 million for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006, and Congress is currently proposing $120 million for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007. During 2006, the Company started EAS Service to Brookings, SD and Huron, SD. The Company also discontinued EAS supported service to Enid, OK, and Ponca City, OK, which became ineligible for EAS Subsidy and McCook, NE and Grand Island, NE, for which another carrier provided service after the Company’s EAS contract term expired. Due to improved passenger revenue, the Company elected to continue to serve Pierre, SD, Riverton, WY and Rock Springs, WY without subsidy after their EAS contract terms expired. These communities had previously been served without subsidy prior to the traffic downturn resulting from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. 2 Table of Contents At February 28, 2007, the Company served 24 EAS communities on a subsidized basis. Essential Air Service Program Activity Subsequent to December 31, 2006 On March 9, 2007, the Company was awarded new Essential Air Service contracts to initiate service from Marion, IL, Quincy, IL Fort Leonard Wood, MO, and Burlington, IA to St. Louis, MO. The Company anticipates that all of its service to St. Louis will be operated under a code-sharing agreement with American Airlines. The Company has signed a letter of intent with American Airlines to provide all of its service to St. Louis under a code sharing agreement with American. On March 30, 2007 the Company was awarded contracts to provide EAS service to Mountain/Kingsford, MI, Ironwood, WI, Manistee/Ludington, MI, and Escanaba, MI from Milwaukee, WI. The Company anticipates that all service to Milwaukee will be operated in conjunction with a code-share agreement with Midwest Airlines. United Air Lines and Frontier Airlines Code Share Relationships United Air Lines. Prior to May 2001, the Company operated under the United Air Lines identity as a United Express carrier. Effective May 1, 2001, the Company and United ended the United Express relationship and entered into a code share agreement under which the Company placed the United Air Lines flight designator code on certain Great Lakes flights that connected with United flights in Chicago, Denver, Minneapolis, and Phoenix. On December 9, 2002, United’s parent company, UAL, Inc., and its subsidiaries filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. At the same time, United obtained an order from the bankruptcy court that allowed, but did not require, United to perform under its executory contracts relating to interline agreements, including United’s code share agreement with the Company. In April 2003, the Company began negotiations with United to modify and extend the code share agreement beyond its original expiration date of April 30, 2004. On July 18, 2003, the Company and United executed an amendment to the code share agreement that formalized the on going relationship between the two companies. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment to the code share agreement, the Company released its exclusive right to utilize the United Air Lines flight designator for five markets served by the Company with connecting service at United’s Denver hub. In exchange, certain code share restrictions, which had previously limited the Company’s ability to enter into code share and frequent flier programs with other airlines at the Denver hub, were removed. The Company and United also agreed on a payment structure for certain amounts owed by the Company to United. In addition, the amendment extended the term of the code share agreement through December 31, 2005 and, subject to the Company’s continued compliance with the code share agreement, United has conditionally agreed to further extend the term of the code share agreement through April 30, 2007. On February 1, 2006, United completed its restructuring and emerged from bankruptcy. The Company and United have continued to operate under the terms of their agreement, which expired on December 31, 2005, while they negotiate an ongoing agreement. Frontier Airlines. On May 3, 2001, the Company entered into a code share agreement with Frontier, which was implemented July 9, 2001. The Frontier agreement provides for the use of Frontier’s flight designator code on Great Lakes’ flights connecting with Frontier’s flights in Denver. Accordingly, certain flights to and from Denver carry both the United Air Lines and Frontier Airlines flight designator codes as well as the Great Lakes flight designator. The Company’s code share agreement with Frontier remains in effect until terminated by either party upon at least 180 days prior written notice to the other party. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the Frontier code share agreement. 3 Table of Contents Markets As of December 31, 2006, the Company operated 66 weekday departures daily from Denver, CO, ten departures daily from Phoenix, AZ and four departures daily from Albuquerque, NM. In 2006, as a result of EAS contracts expiring and being awarded to other air carriers, the Company discontinued service to McCook, NE and Grand Island, NE. The Company also discontinued service to Enid, OK and Ponca City, OK as a result of those communities no longer qualifying for EAS subsidy as mandated by the DOT. In October 2006 the Company commenced service to Brookings and Huron, SD as the result of being awarded new EAS contracts. At the same time, the Company commenced service to Aberdeen, SD partially supported by funding provided under the Small Community Air Service Development Grant (SCASD) Program. The Company will initiate service to Sheridan, WY, commencing May 11, 2007 on a subsidy-free basis. In 2007 the Company will also start EAS service to Marion, Il, Quincy, Il, Fort Leonard Wood, MO and Burlington, IA to St. Louis, Mo and Mountain/Kingsford, MI, Ironwood, WI, Manistee/Ludington, MI, and Escanaba, MI to Milwaukee, WI. The Company anticipates that all service to St. Louis will be operated in conjunction with a code-share agreement with American Airlines, and all service to Milwaukee will be operated in conjunction with a code-share agreement with Midwest Airlines. As of March 30, 2007, the Company’s route map, consisting of current scheduled service and recently awarded Essential Air Service communities, is as follows: 4 Table of Contents Marketing The Company’s services are marketed primarily by means of the Company’s internet web site, global distributions systems (travel agencies and travel agent web sites), the Company’s reservation call center and seat capacity made available through the Company’s code share agreements. The Company’s promotional programs emphasize the Company’s close affiliation with its code share partners and, in particular, the opportunity for the Company’s passengers to participate in related customer service benefits, such as a frequent flyer program. Yield Management The Company monitors its inventory and pricing of available seats utilizing yield management techniques. These processes enable the Company’s revenue control analysts to examine the Company’s past traffic and pricing trends, and to estimate the optimal number of seats to make available for sale at various fares. The analysts then monitors each flight to adjust seat allocations and booking levels, with the objective of maximizing total revenue for each flight. Charter and Freight Service The Company uses its Beechcraft and Embraer Brasilia aircraft to provide charter services to private individuals, corporations and athletic teams. The Company leased two Beechcraft to another carrier in 2005 and in the first nine months of 2006. The Company also carries freight and small packages on most of its scheduled flights. Combined revenues from the Company’s leases, charter flights and freight air service were 1.5%, 1.6%, and 1.4% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Seasonality Historically, the Company has experienced lower passenger volumes during the months of November through April (the non-peak season). This seasonality can be attributed primarily to relatively difficult winter weather operating conditions in the Company’s principal area of operations, resulting in leisure travel. The Company also experiences reduced business travel during the non-peak season. These seasonal factors have generally resulted in reduced revenues, lower operating income, and less cash flow for the Company during the non-peak season. Competition The Company competes for passenger traffic primarily with regional and major air carriers and ground transportation. The Company may also compete with other regional/small air carriers to receive subsidies for providing air service to small communities. The Company’s competition from other air carriers varies from location to location and, in certain areas, comes from regional and major carriers who serve the same or nearby destinations as the Company, but through different hub and spoke systems. The Company could experience increased competition from existing competitors or from new entrants on one or more of the Company’s routes. Aircraft As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s fleet consisted of 25 Beechcraft Model 1900D 19-passenger aircraft and six Embraer Brasilia Model 120 30-passenger aircraft. Beechcraft Aircraft. The Beechcraft 1900D aircraft are pressurized, radar equipped, and offer a 300-mile per hour cruising speed for 19 passengers, plus cargo. The Beechcraft 1900D aircraft is widely regarded by airlines as an efficient and reliable aircraft for regional service. 5 Table of Contents Embraer Brasilia Aircraft. The 30-passenger Embraer Brasilia aircraft are equipped with advanced avionics, have restrooms, are staffed with a flight attendant, and offer a 330-mile per hour cruising speed. A summary of the Company’s operating aircraft as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: 2006 2005 Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Beechcraft1900D EmbraerBrasilia Owned 25 4 25 4 Operating leases — 2 — 2 25 6 25 6 Leased to another carrier — — (2 ) — Available for operations 25 6 23 6 As of December 31, 2006, the average age of the Company’s aircraft was approximately 12 years, and as of December 31, 2005, the average age of the Company’s aircraft was approximately 11 years. Maintenance The Federal Aviation Administration (the FAA) mandates periodic inspection and maintenance of commercial aircraft. The Company performs most of the maintenance and inspection of its aircraft and engines (except engine overhaul) using its own personnel. The heavy maintenance base is located at Cheyenne, Wyoming. Line maintenance is also performed in Denver, Colorado and Phoenix, Arizona. Parts and supplies inventories are maintained at these locations to promote the mechanical dispatch reliability of the fleet. The Company also maintains an inventory of spare engines and propellers for its fleet to allow for minimal downtime during major overhauls. The Company internally performs overhaul of selected aircraft components for its fleet. As required under the Company’s Restructuring Agreement with Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation (Raytheon), dated as of December 31, 2002 (the 2002 Restructuring Agreement) (see Liquidity and Financing below), in April 2004, the Company entered into a five-year Fleet Management ProgramTM contract with Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) under which P&WC supplies the Company with certain engine maintenance services (the FMP contract). In July 2006, the Company amended the FMP contract to extend its term to June 30, 2011 and to reduce the hourly rate the Company pays per flight hour. Monthly amounts to be paid by the Company are based on the total number of Beechcraft 1900D engine operating hours at a fixed contractual rate. The contractual rate per flight hour is subject to annual fixed increases throughout the term of the contract, and the Company is recognizing this expense at a level rate throughout the term of the contract. Since the FMP contract amendment reduced hourly rates retroactively to July 1, 2005, the Company reflected a change in estimate and recorded an adjustment of $582,234 for the renegotiated rate which reduced the corresponding balance payable to P&WC and maintenance expense during the third quarter ending September 30, 2006. 6 Table of Contents Fuel The Company expects to continue to be able to obtain fuel in quantities sufficient to meet its future requirements. The Company contracts, through intermediaries and directly with refiners for the purchase of a significant portion of its aircraft fuel requirements. However, standard industry contracts generally do not provide protection against fuel price increases and do not ensure availability of supply. Accordingly, an increase in the cost of fuel, if not accompanied by an equivalent increase in passenger revenues or subsidies, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future operating results. During 2006, the Company’s average price of fuel, including taxes and plane service fees, was $2.42 per gallon, as compared to $2.13 in 2005 and $1.56 in 2004. At current rates of consumption, a one cent increase or decrease in the per gallon price of fuel will increase or decrease the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $82,000 annually. Liquidity and Financing During and following the year-ended December 31, 2006, the Company successfully renegotiated with its lenders to either extinguish debt or renegotiate the terms of their lease and debt agreements. In July 2006, the Company amended its Fleet Management ProgramTM contract (the FMP contract) with Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) to extend its term to June 30, 2011 and to reduce the hourly rate the Company pays per flight hour. The amended FMP contract cured all past due payments with P&WC. On September 28, 2006 the Company extinguished its debt obligation with CIT Aerospace (CIT) for the financing of three of the Company’s Embraer Brasilia aircraft by making cash payment of $2.1 million. As a result of the extinguishment of debt with CIT, the Company has realized a one-time gain of $1.1 million in the third quarter ending September 30, 2006. The Company entered into a settlement agreement with FINOVA Capital Corporation (FINOVA) on October 20, 2006. The terms of the agreement allow for a reduction in the balance of the outstanding lease obligations and accrued penalty interest from $1.4 million to $0.85 million, for which the Company has entered into a promissory note payable in 45 equal monthly installments of $22,342, including interest, with the first payment being made October 31, 2006. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 15, the Company recorded the FINOVA debt in the amount of $1.0 million. This settlement agreement cured all prior defaults with FINOVA. On December 20, 2006, the Company and Boeing Capital Corporation (Boeing) entered into a Settlement Agreement and Lease Amendment that discharged the Company’s obligations for defaulted rent and other payments due to Boeing under lease agreements for two Embraer aircraft. The total discharged payment defaults were $10,067,097. Simultaneously, the Company paid Boeing a lump sum of $1,150,000 and a maintenance rent payment for two aircraft engines. The Settlement Agreement and Lease Amendment cured all existing defaults with Boeing. On March 9, 2007, the Company and Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation (Raytheon) entered into an Amended and Restated Restructuring Agreement (the Amended Agreement), which amends and restates in its entirety the Restructuring Agreement between the Company and Raytheon dated as of December 31, 2002, (the 2002 Restructuring Agreement). Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, the Company issued to Raytheon 25 amended and restated promissory notes (the Aircraft Notes), each secured by an amended security agreement in the related aircraft. The Aircraft Notes replace the existing notes issued by the Company to Raytheon on December 31, 2002. Each of the Aircraft Notes has an original principal amount of $2,116,573.70, for a total amount of $52,914,343, bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.75% per annum, and provides for monthly payments in arrears starting on March 30, 2007. The Aircraft Notes mature on June 30, 2011 to coincide with the expiration of the FMP contract, at which time a final payment of $1,306,674.84 will be due for each aircraft. The fixed rate of 6.75% on the Aircraft Notes represents a significant reduction in interest expense and eliminates variable interest rate risk on all of the Company’s aircraft debt. 7 Table of Contents Under the Amended Agreement, the Company issued to Raytheon a promissory note (the Senior Note) that replaces the existing senior note and subordinated note issued by the Company to Raytheon on December 31, 2002. The Senior Note has an original principal amount of $13,174,754.62 and bears interest at a rate of 7.00%. Interest on the Senior Note is payable monthly in arrears on the last day of each month, commencing on March 30, 2007. Beginning with the calendar quarter ending June 30, 2007, the Senior Note will provide for quarterly payments of principal on June 30, September 30, and December 30 each year until the note matures on December 30, 2015. For additional information regarding the Company’s arrangements with Raytheon, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The Company’s financial statements have been prepared assuming that Great Lakes will continue as a going concern. The Company’s prior liquidity problems and negative working capital raise doubts about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company had current and total liabilities in excess of current and total assets at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern will depend on the Company’s ability to: (i) maintain adequate liquidity and (ii) generate cash flows from operations to sustain operations and fund debt service requirements. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis that assumes a continuity of operations and the realization of assets and liabilities in the ordinary course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result if the Company were forced to discontinue operations. Aircraft Leases The Company leases two Embraer Brasilia Model 120 aircraft from Boeing Capital Corporation (Boeing). At December 31, 2005, the Company was in arrears on its aircraft rental obligations under these leases in the amount of $7.3 million. The Company had also recorded a liability to Boeing in the amount of $1.3 million for accrued penalty interest on the missed lease payments. On December 20, 2006, the Company and Boeing entered into a Settlement Agreement that discharged the Company’s obligations for the defaulted rent payments of $10,067,097 due to Boeing. Simultaneously, the Company paid Boeing a lump sum of $1,150,000 and a maintenance rent payment for two aircraft engines. The lease was amended to: (i) reduce the monthly rental payments for each aircraft; (ii) require the Company to pay “maintenance rent,” which will be reimbursable upon completion of certain maintenance events; and (iii) remove the Company’s option to purchase the aircraft at the end of the April 2013 lease term at the aircraft’s then fair market value. The total discharged deferred lease payments were $8.3 million and total discharge including accrued interest and penalties resulted in a gain for 2006 of $10.1 million. In November 2002, the Company entered into a Deferral Agreement with FINOVA Capital Corporation (FINOVA) with respect to a leased Embraer Brasilia aircraft, whereby the Company agreed to pay reduced lease payments through the end of the aircraft lease. The lease terminated on November 1, 2003, and the Company returned the aircraft in January 2004. The Company is responsible for costs of repair and refurbishment to satisfy the required aircraft return conditions. Accordingly, in 2004, the Company recognized a liability of $0.2 million for such expenditures. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had accrued lease payments, together with accrued penalty interest, in the amount of $1.3 million. On October 20, 2006, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with FINOVA. In August 2002, the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement with FINOVA, whereby the Company agreed to pay to FINOVA a total of $0.7 million, with interest at 10%, over a period of 48 months in settlement of amounts owed by the Company on the return of one leased Embraer Brasilia aircraft. During 2005, the Company was current on all payments of principal and interest under that agreement, resulting in an outstanding principal balance of $0.1 million as of December 31, 2005. This note was fully paid in 2006. 8 Table of Contents Other Leases The Company leases office and hangar space, spare engines and office equipment for its headquarters, reservation facilities, airport facilities, and certain other equipment. The Company also leases certain airport gate facilities on a month-to-month basis. Equity Interest and Board of Director Observer Rights As further consideration for the concessions granted by Raytheon in the 2002 Restructuring Agreement, the Company issued 5,371,980 shares of the Company’s common stock to Raytheon, representing an approximate 38.2% interest in the Company’s then outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, the Company granted Raytheon observer rights for meetings of the Company’s Board of Directors, but without any right to vote or enter into any discussions at any Board of Directors meetings. As part of the Amended Agreement, Raytheon has relinquished its observer rights. Registration Rights The Amended Agreement requires the Company to file a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to permit Raytheon to resell its shares of Company Common Stock, which the Company has agreed to file by June 30, 2007. Ongoing Compliance The debt payments to be made under the Amended Agreement are closely aligned with the Company’s forecasted cash flows. Under the Amended Agreement, the Company is no longer required to comply with any financial covenant ratios. The Amended Agreement provides for limitations on capital expenditures, incremental indebtedness, anti-dilution of the Company’s common stock, restrictions on equity issuances, encumbrances of assets, and mergers and acquisitions without Raytheon’s prior consent. Transportation Security Administration At June 30, 2004, the Company was obligated to the Transportation Security Administration for $2.5 million, representing collections from passengers for security fees and amounts due from the Company for aviation security infrastructure fees. On August 11, 2004, the Company restructured this obligation into a note that requires the Company to pay the amount owed in 36 monthly payments beginning in August 2004. At December 31, 2006, the Company was current on this obligation. This obligation will be retired on June 29, 2007. 9 Table of Contents Employees At March 1, 2007, the Company had 557 full-time and 288 part-time active employees, as compared to 557 full-time and 269 part-time active employees at March 1, 2006, as follows: March 1,2007 March 1,2006 Classification Pilots 195 188 Station personnel 411 398 Maintenance personnel 126 133 Administrative and clerical personnel 74 70 Flight attendants 18 20 Management 21 17 Total employees 845 826 The Company’s pilots are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT). The Company’s labor agreement with the pilots became amendable on October 30, 2000. In May 2006, the Company and the IBT agreed to binding arbitration to achieve a new three year labor agreement. On September 16, 2006, the arbitrator ruled on terms that resulted in a new labor agreement that will not become amendable until September 16, 2009. The Company’s flight attendants are also represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the Company’s agreement with the flight attendants became amendable on April 1, 2002. Negotiations with the flight attendants are inactive at the present time. The Company’s mechanics and maintenance clerks are represented by the International Association of Machinists. The Company’s agreement with the mechanics became amendable on November 1, 2005, and the Company’s agreement with the maintenance clerks became amendable on March 1, 2002. Negotiations with the mechanics and maintenance clerks are inactive at the present time. In 2003, the Company’s dispatchers voted to be represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Negotiations with the dispatchers are inactive at the present time. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information with respect to the Company’s executive officers as of March 15, 2007. Name Age Title Douglas G. Voss 52 Chairman of the Board of Directors Charles R. Howell IV 49 Chief Executive Officer Michael O. Matthews 50 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael L. Tuinstra 53 Treasurer Douglas G. Voss. Mr. Voss co-founded the Company in 1979 and served in the position of Chief Executive Officer from the Company’s inception until December 31, 2002. Mr. Voss has served as a director of the Company since the Company’s inception and became Chairman of the Board of Directors on December 31, 2002. Mr. Voss became 10 Table of Contents a pilot in 1974 and holds both an Airline Transport Pilot Certificate and an Airframe and Powerplant Mechanic Certificate. Mr. Voss is a graduate of Colorado Aero Tech. In 1977 and 1978, Mr. Voss was employed as a mechanic for a subsidiary of Executive Beechcraft, Inc. Mr. Voss has also served the Company in a number of operational positions, including Director of Maintenance and Director of Operations. Charles R. Howell IV. Mr. Howell became the Chief Executive Officer of the Company on December 31, 2002. Mr. Howell served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2002 until December 31, 2002. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Howell was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Corporate Airlines, Inc., a Nashville-based airline that he co-founded in 1996. Michael O. Matthews. Mr. Matthews became the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on March 28, 2005. Mr. Matthews joined the Company in November 2004 as Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Matthews was employed as Director of Treasury for Budget Group, Inc. Prior to joining Budget Group, Inc. in 2000, Mr. Matthews held management positions in the financial services industry including Newcourt Financial, MetLife Capital, Sanwa Business Credit and Societe Generale Financial Corporation. Michael L. Tuinstra. Mr. Tuinstra became the Company’s Treasurer in January 2002. From August 1998 to January 2002, Mr. Tuinstra served as the Company’s Director of Purchasing and Inventory Control. From August 1998 until April 1999, Mr. Tuinstra was the Company’s budget and financial analyst. Regulation In accordance with the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (the 1958 Act), the Company is an air carrier subject to regulation by the DOT, primarily with respect to economic matters. As a commuter air carrier, the Company is licensed under Part 298 of the Economic Regulations of the DOT. The Company holds an air carrier operating certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) pursuant to Part 121 of the FAA’s regulations. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires that an airline obtain an operating certificate and operations specifications for each particular aircraft and type of operations conducted by the carrier, all of which are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. As a result, the Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to the Company’s operations, aircraft maintenance, and safety related matters, including, but not limited to, equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, training, weather observation, flight personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The Deregulation Act eliminated many regulatory constraints so that airlines became free to set fares and, with limited exceptions, to establish domestic routes without the necessity of seeking government approval. The DOT is still authorized to establish consumer protection regulations in order to prohibit certain pricing practices, mandate conditions of carriage, and make ongoing determinations of a carrier’s fitness, willingness, and ability to provide air transportation properly and lawfully. The DOT also has the power to bring proceedings to enforce its regulations under the 1958 Act and seek penalties, including the assessment of civil penalties, the revocation of operating authority, and criminal sanctions. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act requires the adoption of certain security measures by airlines and airports, including the screening of passengers and baggage. The security measures are being partially funded by a $2.50 per flight segment tax on tickets. The Company is responsible for certain security costs above this level. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission regarding the use of the Company’s radio facilities. In addition, local governments and authorities in certain markets have adopted regulations governing various aspects of aircraft operations, including noise abatement, curfews, and use of airport facilities. The Company believes that it is in compliance with all such regulations. 11 Table of Contents Insurance The Company carries the types and amounts of insurance that are required by the DOT and are customary in the regional airline industry, including coverage for public liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability, and workers’ compensation. As a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, aviation insurers have significantly increased premiums for all aviation coverage, while dramatically reducing the amount of coverage available for war-risk occurrences. In response to the reduction in coverage, the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (the Stabilization Act) provided U.S. air carriers with the option to purchase certain war-risk liability insurance from the United States government on an interim basis at rates that are more favorable than those available in the private market. The Company has purchased this coverage and anticipates renewing it for as long as the coverage is available from the United States government. The airline and insurance industries, together with the United States and other governments, are continuing to evaluate both the cost of aviation insurance and options for providing insurance coverage. The Company anticipates that it will follow industry practices with respect to sources of insurance. The Company believes that its insurance is adequate as to amounts and risks covered. There can be no assurance, however, that the limits of the Company’s insurance will be sufficient to cover any catastrophic loss. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial Condition of the Company The Company’s prior liquidity problems and negative working capital raise doubts about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company had current and total liabilities in excess of current and total assets at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern will depend on the Company’s ability to: (i) maintain adequate liquidity and (ii) generate cash flows from operations to sustain operations and fund debt service requirements. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis that assumes a continuity of operations and the realization of assets and liabilities in the ordinary course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result if the Company were forced to discontinue operations. At December 31, 2006, total liabilities were in excess of total assets (Stockholders’ Equity Deficit) by $2,872,322. It should be noted that in accordance with SFAS15, accounting treatment for recording of gains from the restructuring of debt obligations at December 31, 2002, required that $22,342,395 of such gain be deferred and amortized over the term of the restructured debt obligations thus extending the period over which this amount would have the effect of increasing net income and Stockholders’ Equity. At December 31, 2006, the remaining unamortized amount of deferred gain was $7,118,672 which will be amortized as a reduction of interest expense during the years 2007 through 2011. 12 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2006 and in March 2007 the Company has successfully renegotiated with its lenders to extinguish debt or renegotiate the terms of their lease and debt agreements. These transactions are discussed further in notes (2), (5) and (7) of the accompanying financial statement. Dependence on Relationship with United Air Lines Currently, the Company estimates that approximately 45% of Great Lakes’ passenger traffic connects with United Air Lines flights. As a result of the Company’s relationship with United Air Lines (United), the Company’s business is sensitive to events and risks affecting United. If adverse events affect United’s business, the Company’s business could also be adversely affected. Such events include the ability of United to achieve financial viability after exiting Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, changes in United’s business plan or model, employee strikes or job actions, significant curtailment of services, and terrorist events. However, to the extent that the Company is successful in developing both its own identity on its operating system and its code share relationship with Frontier Airlines and other airlines, the Company will reduce its dependence on United and mitigate the effects of any adverse events that are related solely to United. Terrorist Events The Company is sensitive to changes in the economy and airline industry that are the result of, or related to, past and future terrorist attacks. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the impact of additional airline and security charges on Company costs, reduced customer demand for travel, the cost and availability of war-risk and other aviation insurance (including the federal government’s provision of third party war-risk coverage), and the possibility of additional terrorist events that could cause further customer aversion to air travel. War War or other military action by the United States or other countries could have a significant effect on passenger traffic. Dependence on Essential Air Service Revenues In 2006, 27% of the Company’s revenues were received as EAS subsidies. EAS subsidies are expected to remain a significant portion of the Company’s revenues in 2007 and future years. Changes in DOT policies with regard to payment of subsidies and any reduction or loss of subsidies could have a substantial negative impact on the Company. The DOT awards EAS contracts through competitive bidding and the Company could lose any of its EAS contracts to the Company’s competitors. In addition, the DOT has the right to cancel EAS contracts if it determines that the communities served by such contracts are no longer eligible. At March 1, 2007, the Company served 24 EAS communities on a subsidized basis. Effect of General Economic Conditions The airline industry is significantly affected by general economic conditions. During recent recessions, most airlines reduced fares in an effort to increase traffic. Economic and competitive conditions in the airline industry have contributed to a number of airline bankruptcies. A worsening of current economic conditions, or an extended period of recession, whether nationally or regionally would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. See “Forward-Looking Statements” at the front of this report. 13 Table of Contents Fuel Costs Fuel is a major component of the Company’s operating expenses. The Company does not hedge its fuel purchasing costs. The Company’s cost of fuel varies directly with market conditions, and the Company has no guaranteed long-term sources of supply. Generally, the Company intends to follow industry trends by raising fares in response to significant fuel price increases. However, the Company’s ability to pass on increased fuel costs through fare increases may be limited by economic and competitive conditions. Accordingly, a reduction in the availability of, or an increase in the price of fuel, could have a material adverse effect on both the Company’s cash flow from operations and the Company’s profitability. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, the Company’s average price per gallon of fuel consumed increased to an average of $2.42 per gallon compared to the average price per gallon of $2.13 for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005. The Company estimates that every $.01 increase in the price per gallon of fuel equates to an annualized increase in fuel expense of approximately $82,000. Control by Principal Stockholders Raytheon, the Company’s principal creditor, owns 5,371,980 shares of the Company’s common stock, representing an approximate 38.2% interest in the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. Raytheon acquired the shares in consideration for concessions granted by Raytheon pursuant to the 2002 Restructuring Agreement Mr. Douglas G. Voss, Chairman of the Board of the Company, beneficially owns or controls approximately 40.9% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, including shares owned by Ms. Gayle R. Brandt. Pursuant to a Marital Dissolution Stipulation and Property Settlement, Ms. Brandt granted to Mr. Voss an Irrevocable Proxy to vote her shares of the Company’s common stock until June 28, 2010. Accordingly, Mr. Voss and Raytheon are in a position to control the management and affairs of the Company. Limited Market for Company Securities The Company’s Common Stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market on August 14, 2002. As a result of the delisting, the Company’s Common Stock has become subject to certain rules of the SEC relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require broker-dealers to make a suitability determination for purchasers and to receive the purchaser’s prior written consent for a purchase transaction, thus restricting the ability to purchase or sell the securities in the open market. Trading of the Company’s Common Stock is conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which was established for securities that do not meet NASDAQ listing requirements. Consequently, trading the Company’s Common Stock may be more difficult because of lower trading volumes, transaction delays, and reduced security analyst and news media coverage of the Company. These factors could also contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for the Company’s Common Stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 