Risk Factors" on page 74. SUPPORT AND CONTROL FUNCTIONS. Support and control functions are centralized, although each segment has support and control personnel. Costs of centrally managed support and control functions other than funds management (which is included in the Other Operations segment) are allocated to the Banking and Secondary Market segments. Southwest's philosophy of customer service extends to its support and control functions. Southwest manages and offers products that are technology based, or that otherwise are more efficiently offered centrally, through its home office. These include products that are marketed through the regional offices, such as Southwest's internet banking product for commercial and retail customers (SNB DirectBanker(R)), commercial information, and item processing services (SNB Digital Lockbox), and products marketed and managed directly by central staff, such as cash dispensing machines. Southwest's technology products are marketed both to existing customers and to help develop new customer relationships. Use of these products by customers enables Southwest to serve its customers more effectively, use its resources more efficiently, and increase fee income. For additional information regarding Southwest's operating segments, please see "Note 16. Operating Segments" to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 51 of this report. The total of net income of the segments discussed above is less than consolidated net income for 2005 due to income allocated to the Other Operations segment, which provides funding and liquidity services to the rest of the organization. BANKING OFFICES AND GEOGRAPHIC MARKETS Southwest intends to focus its efforts on markets with characteristics that will allow it to capitalize on its strengths, and to continue establishing new offices in those markets. Southwest considers acquisitions of other financial institutions and other companies, from time to time. Southwest also extends loans to borrowers in Oklahoma and neighboring states through participations with correspondent banks. Southwest has thirteen full-service banking offices, three located in Stillwater, Oklahoma, two located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, two each located in the Dallas and Austin, Texas metropolitan areas, and one each in Oklahoma City and Chickasha, Oklahoma, San Antonio, Texas, and Wichita, Kansas; loan production offices in the Kansas City, Kansas area, and on the campus of the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center; and on the Internet, through SNB DirectBanker(R). See "