Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) required to record changes in fair value for derivatives not designated as hedges in net income in the current period. Prior to the second quarter of fiscal 2004, none of our derivative contracts were designated as hedges and all realized and unrealized gains and losses were recognized in net income in the current period. Our ability to designate derivative contracts as hedges significantly reduces the volatility in our operating results due to changes in the fair value of the derivative contracts. Achieving hedge designation is based on evaluating the effectiveness of the derivative contracts' ability to mitigate the foreign currency exposure of the linked transaction. We are required to monitor the effectiveness of all new and open derivative contracts designated as hedges on a quarterly basis. Based on our evaluation in 2005, we recorded charges totaling $0.5 million in other income/expense related to hedge dedesignations and ineffectiveness. Failure to meet the hedge accounting requirements could result in the requirement to record deferred and current realized and unrealized gains and losses into net income in the current period. This failure could result in significant fluctuations in operating results. In addition, we will continue to recognize unrealized gains and losses related to the changes in fair value of derivative contracts not designated as hedges in the current period net income. Accordingly, the related i mpact to operating results may be recognized in a different period than the foreign currency impact of the linked asset, liability or transaction. The hedging transactions we undertake limit our exposure to changes in the dollar/euro exchange rate. The hedges are designed to protect us as the dollar weakens, but also provide us with some flexibility if the dollar strengthens. Foreign currency losses recorded in other income/expense, inclusive of the impact of derivatives, totaled $1.5 million, $3.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively, in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Our acquisition and investment strategy subjects us to risks associated with evaluating and pursuing these opportunities and integrating these businesses. In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also may seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. As part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or make significant debt and equity investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions can involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with the integration of the operations and personnel, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the possible write-downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to effectively manage any of these risks could seriously harm our business. Additionally, difficulties in integrating any potential acquisitions into our internal control structure could result in a failure of our internal control over financial reporting, which, in turn, could create a materia l weakness. Our debt and equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, which totaled $3.3 million at December 31, 2005, may not prove to be successful and we could lose all or a portion of our investments and/or could be required to take write-offs related to these investments. In 2005, we recorded impairment charges and realized losses totaling $6.4 million related to these investments and may be required to record additional impairment charges related to these investments in the future. To the extent we make investments in entities that we control, or have significant influence in, our financial results will reflect our proportionate share of the financial results of the entity. Issues arising from our enterprise resource planning system could affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively. Our ability to design, manufacture, market and service products and systems is dependent on information technology systems that encompass all of our major business functions. During 2005, we embarked upon a new enterprise resource planning ("ERP") software system to enable us to fully integrate our diverse locations and processes. In total, $7.6 million was spent in 2005 with another $0.4 million spent in the first quarter of 2006. After a review of the projected costs and time to complete the project, we abandoned this project and expensed these costs in the respective periods discussed above. Updating our existing system presents the potential for additional difficulties. Moreover, if the existing system, as updated, is not sufficient to meet our needs, it could adversely affect our ability to do the following in a timely manner: manage and replenish inventory, fulfill and process orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, invoice and collect receivables, place purchase orders and pay invoices, coordinate sales and marketing activities, prepare our financial statements, manage our accounting systems and controls and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such disruption could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, difficulties arising from the ERP system could result in a failure of our internal control over financial reporting, which, in turn, could result in a material weakness and a qualified report from our independent registered public accounting firm. Terrorist acts or acts of war and natural disasters may seriously harm our business and revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and customers, any and all of which could significantly impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. This impact could be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies as a result of our significant international presence. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in FEI COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 12 ways that cannot presently be predicted. We are largely uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters and our headquarters are located in Oregon, which is subject to earthquakes. Unforeseen health, safety or environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances that are regulated by various federal, state and international laws governing health, safety and the environment. We could be subject to liability if we do not handle these substances in compliance with safety standards for storage and transportation and applicable laws. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the United States, even when not subject to local government regulations. We will record a liability for any costs related to health, safety or environmental remediation when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. Provisions of our charter documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Among other things, our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, or "poison pill," which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. These provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our shareholders. See "Description of Capital Stock" for additional information on these provisions. Many of our current and planned products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors that can only be detected after installation, which may harm our reputation. Our products are highly complex, and there is no assurance that our extensive product development, manufacturing and testing processes will be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could impact customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. As a result, we could have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that are shipped. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers and other losses to us or to our customers. These occurrences could also result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Some of our systems use hazardous gases and emit x-rays, which, if not properly contained, could result in property damage, bodily injury and death. A hazardous gas or x-ray leak could result in substantial liability and could also significantly damage customer relationships and disrupt future sales. Moreover, remediation could require redesign of the tools involved, creating additional expense, increasing tool costs and damaging sales. In addition, the matter could involve significant litigation that would divert management time and resource and cause unanticipated legal expense. Further, if such a leak involved violation of health and safety laws, we may suffer substantial fines and penalties in addition to the other damage suffered. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad, and the United States Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign customers. We are subject to export control laws that limit who we sell to, what we sell and where. Moreover, licenses for the export are required from government agencies for some of our products in accordance with various statutory authorities, including the Export Administration Act of 1979, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these necessary licenses in order to conduct business abroad. Failure to comply with applicable export controls or the termination or significant limitation on our ability to export certain of our products would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 