Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, the Company believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its business. However, the risks and uncertainties the Company faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that the Company currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on its financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and your investment in the Company. Current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect the Company’s access to capital, cost 11 of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected businesses access to capital as well as an increased cost of such capital. If the current economic conditions in the United States continue or become worse, the Company’s cost of debt and equity capital and the access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Pursuant to its line of credit agreement with a regional financial institution, the Company has access to up to $6,000,000, of which $3,700,000 is outstanding at April 30, 2010. Based on its calculated borrowing base of allowable accounts receivable and inventory as of April 30, 2010, there is an additional $547,000 of available funds for the Company to utilize on the line of credit. This line of c redit expires in October 2011 and the Company plans to obtain additional one year extensions on the line of credit each year. The Company moved its banking relationship and debt to a new financial institution during fiscal year 2010. The Company and its new lender have discussed these proposed one year extensions on the line of credit on identical terms, but there can be no assurance that they will grant the extensions, and if they do, there can be no assurance that the terms of such extensions will not be on terms that are more burdensome and/or costly to the Company. To the extent that the Company’s lender fails to grant an extension of the line of credit or if the terms of any extension are more burdensome or costly, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Delays in development, introduction and shipment of new products or services may result in a decline in sales. The Company tailors specific technology solutions to its customer requirements wherever high quality, reliability, and innovation are essential. Significant technological, supplier, manufacturing or other problems may delay the development, introduction or production of these products or services. These problems could include: · technical problems in the development of new specific technology solutions; · inability to hire qualified personnel; and · delays or failures to perform by third parties involved in our development projects. Delays in the development, completion and shipment of new products or services, or failure of customers to accept new products, may result in a decline in sales. Dependence on key personnel The Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of its senior executives and other key employees, including certain technical and marketing personnel. The competition for these individuals is significant; hence the loss of one or more of its key executives or employees (including if one or more of its officers or employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with the Company), could materially adversely affect its business, operating results, and financial condition. Dependence on a small number of customers The Company is dependent on a small number of original equipment manufacturer customers in its EDMS business segment. Its proprietary product line segment utilizes business partners worldwide 12 to create integrated solutions with its hardware and its business partner’s software products. The Radix and eXtremeTAG product lines rely on these business partner relationships more heavily than some of the other proprietary product lines which utilize the Company’s internal sales team and complement its sales and marketing efforts with external business partners. Accordingly, the Company is dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of its largest OEM customers for its EDMS business segment and its business partners for its product line business segment. The Company generally does not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from its customers or business partners, and has often experienced reduced lead times in customer orders. Customers and business partners may cancel their orders, change production quantities, and delay production for a number of reasons. The Company’s business partners may experience delays in their software development which may delay delivery of Radix and eXtremeTAG products. Uncertain economic conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of the Company’s customers and business partners delaying the delivery of some of the products manufactured for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer, business partner, or by a group of customers and business partners have harmed, and may continue to harm, the Company’s results of operations by reducing the volumes of products manufactured, as well as by causing a delay in the recovery of its expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer and business partner orders and lower asset utilization resulting in l ower gross margins. Operating results may vary significantly from period to period. The Company can experience fluctuations in its operating results from quarter to quarter and its results of operations for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future periods. Factors which may cause its quarterly operating results to fluctuate include: · increased competition · timing of new products introduced into the market · pricing changes by us or our competitors; · market acceptance or delays in the introduction of new products or services; · production constraints; · quality issues; · labor or material shortages; · the timing of significant orders; · the sales mix of products and services; · customers’ budgets; · adverse movements in interest rates or tax rates; · general economic conditions; and · cyclical nature of demand for customers’ products. Pursuit of business acquisitions could impair the Company’s financial position and profitability. The Company may pursue acquisitions of complementary technologies, product lines or businesses. Future acquisitions may include risks, the occurrence of which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. These risks include: · burdening management and its operating teams during the integration of the acquired entity or product line; 13 · diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; · failing to successfully integrate the acquired products or business; · lack of acceptance of the acquired products by its sales channels or customers; · entering markets where management has no or limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired business; · the effect on the Company’s financial statements of the amortization of acquired intangible assets; · potential loss of customer base of acquired business; · the cost associated with acquisitions including the Company’s ability to secure capital to finance future acquisitions to the extent additional debt or equity is needed; and · assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may adversely affect the Company’s stock price and business. As a public company, Elecsys is subject to numerous governmental and stock exchange requirements, with which management believes the Company is in compliance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have requirements that the Company may fail to meet by the required deadlines or it may fall out of compliance with, such as the internal controls auditor attestation currently required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, with which the Company is not yet required to comply as it is not an accelerated filer. The Company assumes it will continue to have the status of a smaller reporting company based on the aggregate market value of the voting shares held as of October 31, 2009. During the course of its test ing management may identify deficiencies which the Company may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. The Company may also incur additional costs in order to comply with Section 404. In addition, if management fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, management may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that the Company has effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for management to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If management cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, the Company’s business and o perating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in the reported financial information, and the trading price of the Company’s stock could drop significantly. Management’s failure to meet regulatory requirements and exchange listing standards may result in actions such as the delisting of the Company’s stock impacting its stock’s liquidity, SEC enforcement actions, and securities claims and litigation. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 