ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to the Company We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates or approvals may be delayed. Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. Any failure to receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates would harm our business. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we fail or our collaborators or licensees fail to obtain or maintain, or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any products we develop, our ability to receive product or royalty revenues, our recovery of prepaid royalties, and our liquidity and capital resources. All of our products are in research and development, and we have not yet received regulatory approval to commercialize any product from the FDA or any other regulatory body. In addition, we have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may impede our ability to obtain such approvals. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The approval process may take many years to complete and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. If our potential products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Based on the results of the Phase III clinical trials on indiplon, we assembled and filed with the FDA New Drug Applications (NDAs) for both the immediate release capsule and the modified release tablet formulations of indiplon. If the FDA finds either or both of our NDAs incomplete or insufficient, delays approval, or refuses to approve the NDAs for any reason, our business and reputation may be harmed and our stock price may decrease. In addition, even if our indiplon NDAs are approved, the labeling granted by the FDA may limit the commercial success of the product. The FDA could also require Phase IV, or post-marketing, trials to study the long-term effects of indiplon and could withdraw its approval based on the results of those trials. We expect to rely on our collaboration with Pfizer for the funding of the completion of our indiplon clinical program and for commercialization of indiplon. Pfizer has agreed to: • fund substantially all third-party costs related to future indiplon development, manufacturing and commercialization activities; • fund a 200-person Neurocrine sales force that will initially promote Zoloft® and, upon approval of the indiplon NDAs, will co-promote indiplon in the United States; • be responsible for obtaining all regulatory approvals outside of the United States and regulatory approvals in the United States after approval of the first indiplon NDA; and • be responsible for sales and marketing of indiplon worldwide. While our agreement with Pfizer requires them to use commercially reasonable efforts in the development and commercialization of indiplon, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources Pfizer may devote to our collaboration in the United States nor can we control when Pfizer will seek regulatory approvals outside of the United States. In addition, if Pfizer’s development activities in pursuing new indications and uses of indiplon are not successful or if Pfizer’s sales and marketing activities for indiplon are not effective, indiplon sales and our business may be harmed. 19 Table of Contents Decisions within the collaboration are made within a series of joint committees comprised of Neurocrine and Pfizer representatives. In the event of disagreement at the committee level, the agreement provides for elevation of the issue to a joint steering committee and thereafter to senior executives at both companies. The agreement provides that certain decisions are Neurocrine decisions, certain decisions are Pfizer decisions and certain decisions require consensus among both parties before any action can be taken. We face the risk that decisions may be delayed as a result of this resolution process. Our agreement further provides that upon occurrence of certain events, some decisions designated as Neurocrine decisions may become Pfizer decisions. Pfizer may terminate the collaboration at any time upon 180-days written notice, subject to payment of specified amounts related to ongoing clinical development activities. If Pfizer elects to terminate the collaboration prior to FDA approval, we will be responsible for regulatory and commercialization expenses while we seek another partner to assist us in the worldwide development and commercialization of indiplon. This could cause delays in obtaining marketing approvals and sales, and negatively impact our business. If Pfizer elects to terminate the collaboration after receipt of FDA approval, we would be forced to fund the Neurocrine sales force and/or seek new marketing partners for indiplon. This could lead to loss of sales and negatively impact our business. In the event the collaboration is terminated by Pfizer, we may not be successful in finding another collaboration partner on favorable terms, or at all, and any failure to obtain a new partner on favorable terms could adversely affect indiplon development and commercialization and our business. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Any failure or substantial delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates may severely harm our business. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any of our potential products, we must subject these product candidates to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and may take years to complete. We have submitted NDAs based on the results of our clinical trials in our indiplon development program for insomnia. This is our most advanced clinical program and represents a significant portion of our total clinical development activities and expenditures, to date. If the FDA determines that we have failed to demonstrate that indiplon is safe and efficacious for the targeted patient populations or if the FDA does not approve the proposed indiplon product labeling, our business and reputation would be harmed and our stock price would be negatively affected. In connection with the clinical trials of indiplon and our other product candidates, we face the risks that: • the product may not prove to be effective; • we may discover that a product candidate may cause harmful side effects; • the results may not replicate the results of earlier, smaller trials; • we or the FDA may suspend the trials; • the results may not be statistically significant; • patient recruitment may be slower than expected; and • patients may drop out of the trials. Also, late stage clinical trials are often conducted with patients having the most advanced stages of disease. During the course of treatment, these patients can die or suffer other adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agent being tested but which can nevertheless adversely affect clinical trial results. 20 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses and negative operating cash flows for the near future, and we may never achieve sustained profitability. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including net losses of $22.2 million and $45.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $300.1 million and $278.0 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We were not profitable for the year ended December 31, 2005. Profitability in 2006 is contingent upon the timing of the approval of our NDA filings for indiplon by the FDA, and acceptance of indiplon by prescribers and consumers. We have not yet obtained regulatory approvals, of any products and, consequently, have not generated revenues from the sale of products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drugs, we may not be profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures as we: • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • develop, formulate, manufacture and commercialize our drugs; • in-license or acquire new product development opportunities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • hire additional clinical, scientific and marketing personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the near future as we fund our operating losses, in-licensing or acquisition opportunities, and capital expenditures. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow. We may not be able to generate these revenues, and we may never achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Even if we become profitable, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Because our operating results may vary significantly in future periods, our stock price may decline. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate, among other reasons, due to our achievement of product development objectives and milestones, clinical trial enrollment and expenses, research and development expenses and the timing and nature of contract manufacturing and contract research payments. A high portion of our costs are predetermined on an annual basis, due in part to our significant research and development costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect operating results in a quarter. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We depend on continuing our current strategic alliances and developing additional strategic alliances to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We depend upon our corporate collaborators to provide adequate funding for a number of our programs. Under these arrangements, our corporate collaborators are responsible for: • selecting compounds for subsequent development as drug candidates; • conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining required regulatory approvals for these drug candidates; and • manufacturing and commercializing any resulting drugs. Our strategy for developing and commercializing our products is dependent upon maintaining our current arrangements and establishing new arrangements with research collaborators, corporate collaborators and others. We 21 Table of Contents have active collaboration agreements with Pfizer and GlaxoSmithKline. Because we rely heavily on our corporate collaborators, the development of our projects would be substantially delayed if our collaborators: • fail to select a compound that we have discovered for subsequent development into marketable products; • fail to gain the requisite regulatory approvals of these products; • do not successfully commercialize products that we originate; • do not conduct their collaborative activities in a timely manner; • do not devote sufficient time and resources to our partnered programs or potential products; • terminate their alliances with us; • develop, either alone or with others, products that may compete with our products; • dispute our respective allocations of rights to any products or technology developed during our collaborations; or • merge with a third party that may wish to terminate the collaboration. These issues and possible disagreements with our corporate collaborators could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of many of our product candidates. Furthermore, disagreements with these parties could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If any of these issues arise, it may delay the development and commercialization of drug candidates and, ultimately, our generation of product revenues. We license some of our core technologies and drug candidates from third parties. If we default on any of our obligations under those licenses, we could lose our rights to those technologies and drug candidates. We are dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. These licenses typically subject us to various commercialization, reporting and other obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights. For example, we have licensed indiplon from DOV Pharmaceutical. In addition, we license some of the core technologies used in our collaborations from third parties, including the CRF receptor we license from The Salk Institute and use in our CRF program collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline and the adenosine 2A receptor antagonist we license from Almirall Prodesfarma, S.A. Other in-licensed technologies, such as the GnRH receptor we license from Mount Sinai School of Medicine, will be important for future collaborations for our GnRH program. If we were to default on our obligations under any of our product licenses, such as our license to indiplon, we could lose some or all of our rights to develop, market and sell the product. Likewise, if we were to lose our rights under a license to use proprietary research tools, it could adversely affect our existing collaborations or adversely affect our ability to form new collaborations. We also face the risk that our licensors could, for a number of reasons, lose patent protection or lose their rights to the technologies we have licensed, thereby impairing or extinguishing our rights under our licenses with them. Because the development of our product candidates is subject to a substantial degree of technological uncertainty, we may not succeed in developing any of our product candidates. All of our product candidates are in research, clinical development, or in registration with the FDA and, while we expect indiplon to be commercially available in 2006, there is the possibility that it will not be commercially available at all. Only a small number of research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. These reasons include the possibilities that the potential products may: 22 Table of Contents • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical studies or clinical trials; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all; • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; • be difficult to manufacture on a large scale; or • be uneconomical or fail to achieve market acceptance. If any of our products encounters any of these potential problems, we may never successfully market that product. Since indiplon is our most advanced product program, our business and reputation would be particularly harmed, and our stock price likely would be harmed, if we fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or achieve market acceptance. We have limited marketing experience, sales force or distribution capabilities, and if our products are approved, we may not be able to commercialize them successfully. Although we do not currently have any marketable products, our ability to produce revenues ultimately depends on our ability to sell our products if and when they are approved by the FDA. We currently have limited experience in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. In preparation for marketing indiplon upon approval by the FDA, we have hired staff with experience in pharmaceutical sales and marketing. We will rely on Pfizer to co-promote indiplon with us in the United States and rely exclusively on Pfizer to market indiplon outside of the United States. We will also rely on Pfizer to provide distribution, customer service, order entry, shipping, billing, customer reimbursement assistance and managed care sales support related to indiplon. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or fail to enter into successful marketing arrangements with third parties, our product revenues will suffer. If Pfizer’s sales force or our sales force do not successfully promote indiplon to prescribers, sales of indiplon and our royalty revenues will suffer. Further, if Pfizer does not provide the other services it has agreed to provide in a satisfactory manner, sales of indiplon will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged. The independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we rely upon to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. Moreover, these independent investigators and CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If independent investigators and CROs assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We have no manufacturing capabilities. If third-party manufacturers of our product candidates fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials and product introductions may be delayed and our costs may rise. We have in the past utilized, and intend to continue to utilize, third-party manufacturers to produce the drug compounds we use in our clinical trials and for the potential commercialization of our future products. We have no experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and do not currently have any manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we depend on several contract manufacturers for all production of products for development and commercial purposes. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers, we will not be able to commercialize our products. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is 23 Table of Contents subject to specific FDA regulations. Our third-party manufacturers might not comply with FDA regulations relating to manufacturing our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes or other regulatory requirements now or in the future. Our reliance on contract manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks: • contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, and also may experience shortages in qualified personnel. As a result, our contract manufacturers might not be able to meet our clinical schedules or adequately manufacture our products in commercial quantities when required; • switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly on acceptable terms, or at all; • our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store or distribute our products; • drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practices and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards; and • if the primary contract manufacturer for indiplon should be unable to manufacture indiplon for any reason, or should fail to receive FDA approval or Drug Enforcement Agency approval, commercialization of indiplon could be delayed, which would delay indiplon sales and negatively impact our business. Our current dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may harm our profit margin, if any, on the sale of our future products and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified scientists or if any of our key senior executives discontinues his or her employment with us, it may delay our development efforts. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development objectives. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants are employed by employers other than us. They may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Governmental and third-party payors may impose sales and pharmaceutical pricing controls on our products that could limit our product revenues and delay profitability. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may reduce our potential revenues. These payors’ efforts could decrease the price that we receive for any products we may develop and sell in the future. In addition, third-party insurance coverage may not be available 24 Table of Contents to patients for any products we develop. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, or if price controls are enacted, our product revenues will suffer. If physicians and patients do not accept our products, we may not recover our investment. The commercial success of our products, if they are approved for marketing, will depend upon the acceptance of our products as safe and effective by the medical community and patients. The market acceptance of our products could be affected by a number of factors, including: • the timing of receipt of marketing approvals; • the safety and efficacy of the products; • the success of existing products addressing our target markets or the emergence of equivalent or superior products; and • the cost-effectiveness of the products. In addition, market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, and, to date, we have very limited sales and marketing experience or capabilities. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept our products as being safe and effective, we may not recover our investment. If we cannot raise additional funding, we may be unable to complete development of our product candidates. We may require additional funding to continue our research and product development programs, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, for operating expenses and to pursue regulatory approvals for product candidates. We also may require additional funding to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities in the future. We believe that our existing capital resources, together with interest income, and future payments due under our strategic alliances, will be sufficient to satisfy our current and projected funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, these resources might be insufficient to conduct research and development programs as planned. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may be required to curtail significantly one or more of our research and development programs or obtain funds through additional arrangements with corporate collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude of our research and development programs; • progress with preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in filing and pursuing patent applications and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • the establishment of additional strategic alliances; • the cost of commercialization activities and arrangements, including manufacturing of our product candidates; and • the cost of product in-licensing and any possible acquisitions. 25 Table of Contents We intend to seek additional funding through strategic alliances, and may seek additional funding through public or private sales of our securities, including equity securities. In addition, we have financed capital purchases and may continue to pursue opportunities to obtain additional debt financing in the future. However, additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and any additional equity financings will be dilutive to our stockholders. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Over the course of the last 12 months, the price of our common stock has ranged from approximately $34 per share to approximately $66 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many factors, including: • developments related to the FDA approval process for indiplon; • the results of our clinical trials; • developments concerning our strategic alliance agreements; • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or others; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; • comments by securities analysts; • general market conditions; • fluctuations in our operating results; • government regulation; • health care reimbursement; 26 Table of Contents • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; and • public concern as to the safety of our drugs. If any of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall dramatically and may expose us to class action securities lawsuits which, even if unsuccessful, would be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Industry We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for our products, if any, may be reduced. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of our product candidates from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Competition may also arise from, among other things: • other drug development technologies; • methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and • new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including insomnia, anxiety, depression, various female and male disorders, multiple sclerosis, diabetes and other neuro-endocrine related diseases and disorders, and there are a number of competitors to products in our research pipeline. If one or more of our competitors’ products or programs are successful, the market for our products may be reduced or eliminated. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical testing experience; • manufacturing and marketing experience; and • production facilities. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products based on our discoveries, which may reduce demand for our products. Our success will depend on our ability to, among other things: • obtain patent protection for our products; • preserve our trade secrets; 27 Table of Contents • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; and • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and internationally. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we intend to seek patent protection for our proprietary technology and compounds. However, we face the risk that we may not obtain any of these patents and that the breadth of claims we obtain, if any, may not provide adequate protection of our proprietary technology or compounds. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our commercial collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and some, but not all, of our commercial collaborators and consultants. However, if our employees, commercial collaborators or consultants breach these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, although we own a number of patents, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure you how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in limitations of their coverage. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. Interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The technologies we use in our research as well as the drug targets we select may infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us or our collaboration partners with respect to technologies used in potential products. We are aware of a patent application controlled by another company, which if granted in its broadest scope and held to be valid, could impact the commercialization of our modified release insomnia formulation in the United States unless we obtain a license, which may not be available to us. Based on information available from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), we have learned that the USPTO has examined the pending claims of this application two times and that both times it has rejected all the pending claims. We are also aware that the corresponding patent application in Europe has issued as a patent, and we have filed an opposition against the issued European patent. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaboration partners, we or our collaboration partners could be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us or our collaboration partners rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we could be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if our collaboration partners or we were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our 28 Table of Contents potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. The use of any of our potential products in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash reserves and could cause our stock price to fall. Our activities involve hazardous materials, and we may be liable for any resulting contamination or injuries. Our research activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If an accident occurs, a court may hold us liable for any resulting damages, which may harm our results of operations and cause us to use a substantial portion of our cash reserves, which would force us to seek additional financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 