Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report could substantially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and that if any of these events occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of the value of your shares of our common stock. The cautionary statements made in this report are intended to be applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they may appear in this report. We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were originally incorporated in California in January 1992 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1996. We discover, develop and intend to commercialize drugs for the treatment of neurological and endocrine-related diseases and disorders. Our product candidates address some of the largest pharmaceutical markets in the world, including insomnia, anxiety, depression, various female and male health disorders, diabetes and other neurological and endocrine related diseases and disorders. We currently have nine programs in various stages of research and development, including six programs in clinical development. While we independently develop many of our product candidates, we have entered into a collaboration for one of our programs. Our lead clinical development program, indiplon, is a drug candidate for the treatment of insomnia. 3 Table of Contents Our Product Pipeline The following table summarizes our most advanced product candidates currently in clinical development and those currently in research, and is followed by detailed descriptions of each program: Program Target Indication Status Commercial Rights Products under clinical development: Indiplon Insomnia Registration Neurocrine GnRH Antagonist Endometriosis Phase II Neurocrine CRF R1 Antagonist Mood Disorders, Irritable Bowel Syndrome Phase II GlaxoSmithKline/ Neurocrine CRF R2 Peptide Agonist — Urocortin 2 Cardiovascular Phase II Neurocrine Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (sNRI) Neuropathic Pain Phase I Neurocrine GnRH Antagonist Benign Prostatic Phase I Neurocrine Hyperplasia Research: sNRI Depression, Stress, Research Neurocrine Urinary Incontinence Glucose Dependent Insulin Secretagogues Type II Diabetes Research Neurocrine GnRH Antagonist Endometriosis, Benign Research Neurocrine Prostatic Hyperplasia Adenosine2A Receptor Antagonists Parkinson’s Disease Research Neurocrine/Almirall Ion Channel Blocker Chronic Pain Research Neurocrine “Registration” indicates that we or our collaborators have submitted an New Drug Application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for regulatory approval of the drug candidate. “Phase II” indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting clinical trials on groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. “Phase I” indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting clinical trials with a smaller number of patients to determine early safety profile, maximally tolerated dose and pharmacological properties of the product in human volunteers. “Research” indicates identification and evaluation of compound(s) in laboratory and preclinical models. “R1 and R2” refer to two CRF receptor subtypes. Products Under Clinical Development Indiplon Insomnia is a neurological disorder with approximately 86 million adults in the United States reporting trouble sleeping a few nights per week or more, according to a 2006 report from Mattson Jack (an epidemiological database used to determine the prevalence of a disease or disorder). Mattson Jack also reports that approximately 26 million adults in the United States experience chronic insomnia, having trouble sleeping every night or almost every night. In addition, according to the National Sleep Foundation (2003), frequent sleep problems in individuals that are 55 to 84 years old, if ignored, can complicate the treatment of other medical conditions, including arthritis, diabetes, heart and lung disease and depression. According to a 2006 report from IMS Health, the United States insomnia pharmaceutical market was $2.8 billion in 2005 and is expected to exceed $3.1 billion in 2006. 4 Table of Contents Researchers have found that insomnia can be treated by drugs that interact with the site of action of a natural brain chemical involved in promoting and maintaining sleep. This chemical is called gamma amino-butyric acid, or GABA, and the site of action is called the GABAA receptor. During the 1980s, drugs that non-selectively target the GABAA receptor, known as benzodiazepines, were used as sedatives to treat insomnia. This class of drugs produces several undesirable side effects, including negative interactions with other central nervous system depressants, such as alcohol, the development of tolerance upon repeat dosing, and rebound insomnia, or the worsening of insomnia following discontinuation of dosing. Additional side effects, due to the long half-life, or the duration of action of a compound, associated with this class of drugs include next-day residual sedation effects and impairment of coordination and memory. During the late 1980s, a class of drugs known as non-benzodiazepines was developed to target a specific site on the GABAA receptor. The non-benzodiazepines have a reduced incidence of side effects that are believed to be attributable to binding more selectively on a GABAA receptor subtype than the benzodiazepines. The most commonly prescribed of the non-benzodiazepines in the United States are Ambien®, Ambien CR®, Sonata® and Lunesta®. According to IMS Health, Ambien® is the current market leader in the United States, with sales of $2.1 billion in 2005. We obtained the rights to indiplon for the treatment of insomnia through an exclusive worldwide sublicense agreement that we entered into with DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc. (DOV) in June 1998. Indiplon is a non-benzodiazepine GABAA receptor agonist which acts via the same mechanism as the currently marketed non-benzodiazepine therapeutics. However, preclinical studies suggest that indiplon has fewer side effects than currently marketed non-benzodiazepines, including Ambien® and Sonata®. In our Phase II and III clinical studies, indiplon demonstrated efficacy with no significant next-day residual sedation effects at clinically relevant doses. We have developed indiplon in both a short acting capsule formulation and a longer acting tablet formulation. To develop these two different formulations, we have capitalized on important features of indiplon, its rapid absorption and its short half-life in the body. Based on our clinical studies, we have determined that the concentration of indiplon in the bloodstream reaches levels high enough to induce sedation approximately 15 minutes after the patient takes the pill. Indiplon is then rapidly metabolized and eliminated. The result for the patient is rapid sleep onset followed by rapid elimination of the drug from the body, reducing the risk of next-day residual sedation effects. We believe that indiplon will address the most prevalent forms of insomnia — difficulty falling asleep; difficulty staying asleep; and difficulty getting back to sleep after middle of the night awakenings. Both forms are intended to improve sleep quality without creating drug induced impairment upon awakening. Our indiplon program is one of the most comprehensive clinical programs addressing the multiple needs of both younger and older adult patients with various forms of insomnia such as sleep initiation, sleep maintenance and middle of the night awakening. Based on the results of preclinical studies and Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials on indiplon, as well as a non-clinical data package related to indiplon manufacturing, formulation and commercial product development, we assembled and filed NDAs with the FDA for both indiplon capsules and indiplon tablets. On May 15, 2006, we received two complete responses from the FDA regarding our indiplon capsule and tablet NDAs. These responses indicated that indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg capsules were approvable (FDA Approvable Letter) and that the 15 mg tablets were not approvable (FDA Not Approvable Letter). The FDA Approvable Letter requested that we reanalyze data from certain preclinical and clinical studies to support approval of indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg capsules for sleep initiation and middle of the night dosing. The FDA Approvable Letter also requested reexamination of the safety analyses. We held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Approvable Letter in August 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon capsules from Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon capsules. At the meeting the FDA requested that the resubmission include further analyses and modifications of analyses previously submitted to address questions raised by the FDA in the initial review. This reanalysis has been substantially completed. The FDA also requested, and we have completed, a supplemental pharmacokinetic/food effect profile of indiplon capsules including several meal types. The NDA for indiplon 5 Table of Contents capsules is currently being updated to include responses to the FDA requests and is targeted to be resubmitted to the FDA by the end of the second quarter of 2007. The FDA Not Approvable Letter requested that we reanalyze certain safety and efficacy data and questioned the sufficiency of the objective sleep maintenance clinical data with the 15 mg tablet in view of the fact that the majority of our indiplon tablet studies were conducted with doses higher than 15 mg. We held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Not Approvable Letter in October 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon tablets from Not Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon tablets. The FDA has requested additional long-term safety and efficacy data with the 15 mg dose for the adult population and the development of a separate dose for the elderly population. In discussions, we and the FDA noted positive efficacy data for sleep maintenance with both indiplon capsules and tablets. On the basis of these discussions, we are formulating a strategy to pursue a sleep maintenance claim for indiplon. The evaluation of indiplon for sleep maintenance is ongoing and includes both indiplon capsules and tablets. Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Antagonist Gonadotropin-releasing hormone, or GnRH, is a peptide that stimulates the secretion of the pituitary hormones that are responsible for sex steroid production and normal reproductive function. Researchers have found that chronic administration of GnRH agonists reversibly shuts down this transmitter pathway and is clinically useful in treating hormone-dependent diseases such as endometriosis, uterine fibroids and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Several companies have developed peptide GnRH agonists on this principle, such as Lupron® and Zoladex®, and according to their manufacturers, their annual worldwide sales in 2005 totaled $2.5 billion (EvaluatePharma.com). However, since they are peptides, they must be injected via a depot formulation rather than the preferred oral route of administration. In addition, GnRH agonists can take up to several weeks to exert their effect, a factor not seen with the use of GnRH antagonists. More importantly, until their effects are maximal, they have shown a tendency to exacerbate the condition via a hormone flare, and lead to the loss of bone density. Orally active, nonpeptide GnRH antagonists potentially offer several advantages over injectable GnRH peptide drugs, including rapid onset of hormone suppression without a hormonal flare. Also, injection site reactions commonly observed in peptide depots are avoided and dosing can be rapidly discontinued if necessary — a clinical management option not available with long-acting depot injections. Importantly, using orally active antagonists, it may be possible to alter the level of pituitary suppression by varying dosage and thereby titrating circulating estrogen levels. Using this approach, an oral GnRH antagonist may provide patients relief from the painful symptoms of endometriosis while avoiding the need for the active management of bone loss. Mattson Jack (2006) estimates that there are approximately 6.0 million women in the United States who are clinically-recognized as having chronic endometriosis. Of those afflicted, approximately 200,000 patients are treated in an inpatient setting, and approximately 250,000 are treated in an outpatient setting, according to a 1998 National Patient Profile audit (SMG Marketing Group). According to the American Academy of Family Physicians, endometriosis is believed to account for a significant proportion of infertility and greater than 90 percent of cases of chronic pelvic pain. The direct medical costs of endometriosis are estimated at $2.8 billion annually. We believe that the availability of an oral treatment, lacking the side effect profile of the currently available peptide agonists, may be an alternative to current therapies and ultimately encourage a higher treatment rate. Several Phase I clinical trials of our GnRH candidate for endometriosis have been completed. These studies demonstrated that our GnRH antagonist was safe and well tolerated, and a dose-dependent suppression of estradiol with once a day dosing was observed with doses between 50mg and 200mg /day. The reduction in estradiol has been correlated with a reduction in pain and other symptoms of endometriosis and is a useful biomarker. Based on the results of these Phase I trials, we completed two separate three-month Phase II trials in endometriosis patients to establish efficacy and tolerability of our lead endometriosis drug candidate during 2006. Efficacy in these Phase II studies was assessed by the Composite Pelvic Sign and Symptoms Score (CPSSS) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) industry-standard and validated measures utilized for evaluating pain reduction in endometriosis patients. In addition to the standard clinical and laboratory assessments of safety, a biomarker for bone turnover (n-telopeptide) was also measured to assess potential impact on bone mineral density. 6 Table of Contents Preliminary results were reported in mid-2006 for the first study of 75 mg and 150 mg given once daily. The second Phase II study in patients with endometriosis was initiated in December 2005 to more fully explore dose response at 50 mg twice daily and 100 mg twice daily. Preliminary results from this trial were reported in January 2007. Taken together, these trials indicate that a reduction in pain associated with endometriosis, as measured by CPSSS and VAS, is possible with benefit occurring within the first two weeks for some women. The magnitude of pain reduction is roughly comparable to that seen with Depo-Provera® and Lupron® although direct comparison to these treatments was not part of these early Phase II trials. Average estradiol levels were reduced in a dose-related manner and, most importantly, do not fall into the post-menopausal range associated with GnRH agonist treatments. Furthermore, no increase in bone turnover was evident as shown by stable mean n-telopeptide levels. We initiated a Phase IIb study in the fourth quarter of 2006 in which 240 patients with endometriosis will be treated over a 6-month treatment period. This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, study includes three treatment groups, with two doses of GnRH, 150mg once a day and 75mg twice daily, and an active comparator. In addition to confirming the effect of GnRH on endometriosis symptoms, this study is designed primarily to assess the impact of longer treatment on bone mineral density as measured by DEXA scan (X-Ray) at the conclusion of dosing and at 6-months and 12-months post treatment. These results, together with data from the previous two Phase II studies, are intended to provide the basis for securing agreement to a registration plan acceptable to the FDA. BPH is defined by the enlargement of the prostate gland. In BPH, as the prostate grows larger and presses against the urethra, normal flow of urine is hindered. Researchers have determined that dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a derivative of testosterone, is the primary cause of prostate enlargement. Equally important, men who do not generate DHT do not develop BPH. Accordingly, by using a small molecule GnRH antagonist, one could block the production of testosterone, and indirectly DHT, and thus ameliorate the symptoms of BPH. Moderate to severe BPH affects an estimated 21 million men in the United States (Mattson Jack 2006). Additionally, more than 40% of all men over the age of 60 suffer from the symptoms of BPH (Mattson Jack 2006). Worldwide sales of current treatments for BPH exceeded $3 billion in 2005 (EvaluatePharma.com). During 2004, we conducted a Phase I single dose study to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of our GnRH antagonist in healthy males. The results of this trial demonstrated that our GnRH antagonist effectively reduced testosterone production when compared to placebo. In 2005, we filed an Investigational New Drug application to initiate a multiple dose Phase I study in males. The study was completed in 2006 and the results demonstrate that a dose-related reduction of testosterone was achieved and that two weeks of GnRH antagonist treatment is generally safe and well tolerated in healthy males. Corticotropin-Releasing Factor (CRF) R1 Antagonist According to Mattson Jack (2006), the lifetime prevalence of major depressive disorder exceeds 22 million in the United States and 12 million suffer from less severe forms of depression. The National Institute of Mental Health also indicated that in 2006 over 19 million Americans suffered from a debilitating anxiety disorder. In 2005, the branded worldwide market for depression therapeutics was in excess of $12 billion (EvaluatePharma.com). Depression. Depression is one of a group of neuropsychiatric disorders that is characterized by extreme feelings of elation and despair, loss of body weight, decreased aggressiveness and sexual behavior, and loss of sleep. Researchers believe that depression results from a combination of environmental factors, including stress, as well as an individual’s biochemical vulnerability, which is genetically predetermined. The most frequently prescribed antidepressant therapies are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as Zoloft®, Paxil®, Lexapro® and Prozac®, as well as certain generic equivalents, that act to increase the levels of serotonin and several other chemicals in the brain. However, because these drugs affect a wide range of neurotransmitters, they have been associated with a number of adverse side effects. While newer, more selective drugs offer some safety improvement, side effects remain problematic. In addition, one of the biggest limitations of most existing antidepressant therapies is their slow onset of action. Anxiety. Anxiety is among the most commonly observed group of central nervous system disorders, which includes phobias or irrational fears, panic attacks, and other syndromes. Of the pharmaceutical agents that other 7 Table of Contents companies currently market for the treatment of anxiety disorders, benzodiazepines, such as Valium® and Xanax®, and the anxiolytics BuSpar® and Effexor® as well as certain generic equivalents are the most frequently prescribed. Several side effects, however, limit the utility of these anti-anxiety drugs. Most problematic among these are drowsiness, memory difficulties, drug dependency and withdrawal reactions following the termination of therapy. Researchers have identified what they believe to be the central mediator of the body’s stress responses or stress-induced disorders (including depression and anxiety). This mediator is a brain chemical known as corticotropin-releasing factor, or CRF. CRF is overproduced in clinically depressed patients and individuals with anxiety disorders. Current research indicates that clinically depressed patients and patients with anxiety experience dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, the system that manages the body’s overall response to stress. This amplifies production of CRF, and induces the physical effects that are associated with stress that can lead to depression or anxiety. The novelty and specificity of the CRF mechanism of action and the prospect of improving upon selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor therapy represents a market opportunity both to better serve patients and expand overall treatment of depression. We also believe that CRF offers a novel mechanism of action that may offer the advantage of being more selective, thereby providing increased efficacy with reduced side effects in anxiety as compared to benzodiazepines. We have a strategic position in the CRF field through our intellectual property portfolio and relationship with experts in the neuropsychiatric field. We have further characterized the CRF receptor system and have identified additional members of the CRF receptor family. We have patent rights on two receptor subtypes called CRF R1 and CRF R2, and we have pending patent applications on small molecule organic compounds modulating the CRF receptors. The first clinical trial to offer evidence of proof of concept of CRF antagonists in addressing depression (and anxiety as a co-examined variable) was a Phase IIa open label trial we conducted in 1999 pursuant to collaborations with Janssen in the field of CRF antagonists. Results from this trial indicated that the drug candidate was safe and well tolerated and demonstrated anti-depressant activity as measured by a widely-accepted depression scale known as the Hamilton Depression Scores. In this trial, the drug candidate was administered to 20 patients with major depressive disorders. Results from the trial, as reported in the Journal of Psychiatric Research, showed that treatment response, as defined by more than a 50% reduction in Hamilton Depression Scores, occurred in 50% of the patients in the low dose group and 80% of the patients in the higher dose group. Additionally, the drug candidate demonstrated a reduction in Hamilton Anxiety Scores from baseline in both treatment groups at all times after dosing. While development of our first generation CRF antagonist was discontinued for safety reasons by our collaborator Janssen, we were encouraged by these results which we believe support the hypothesized mechanism of action. Our CRF antagonist research collaboration with Janssen was terminated in March 2002. In July 2001, we announced our second CRF antagonist collaboration, a worldwide collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), to develop and commercialize CRF antagonists for psychiatric, neurological and gastrointestinal diseases. Under the terms of this agreement, GSK sponsored and we jointly conducted a collaborative research program and collaborated in the development of our current lead compounds, as well as novel back-up candidates and second generation compounds identified through the collaborative research. The sponsored research portion of the collaboration was completed in 2005. During 2004, GSK advanced one of the lead CRF R1 receptor antagonist drug candidates arising out of our collaboration into Phase I clinical trials. The trial was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose study to evaluate safety and pharmacokinetics of a range of escalating doses. This study dose was followed by the successful completion of a placebo-controlled double blind multiple dose Phase I study. In late 2006, GSK initiated Phase II “proof of concept” clinical trials with a lead CRF R1 receptor antagonist compound for two indications, social anxiety disorder (SocAD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The first “proof of concept” trial is a Phase II double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled, multiple dose study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the CRF antagonist compound in patients with SocAD. The four-arm study will include more than 200 adult subjects with Generalized Social Anxiety Disorder/Social Phobia. Efficacy, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics will be assessed. The clinical endpoints of the study include validated scales for assessment of anxiety disorders including the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale and the Social Avoidance and Distress Scale. 8 Table of Contents GSK has also advanced an additional lead CRF receptor antagonist into a Phase I single-dose study in the first quarter of 2006 and this compound is now in a Phase I multi-dose study. Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Research has also suggested that CRF plays a role in the control or modulation of the gastrointestinal system. Studies have demonstrated that central administration of CRF acts in the brain to inhibit emptying of the stomach while stimulating bowel activity, and suggest that overproduction of CRF in the brain may be a main contributor to stress-related gastrointestinal disorders. IBS is a gastrointestinal inflammatory disease that affects approximately 30 million people in the United States (Mattson Jack, 2006), accounting for over $25 billion in direct and indirect costs each year, according to the International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders. IBS can be a lifelong, intermittent disease, involving chronic or recurrent abdominal pain and frequent diarrhea or constipation. Some patients with IBS report the onset of symptoms of the disease following a major life stress event, such as death in the family, which suggests that the causes of IBS may be related to stress. In addition, most IBS sufferers also experience anxiety and depression. The second “proof of concept” trial is a Phase II double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this compound in patients with IBS. Approximately 100 patients meeting established diagnostic criteria for IBS will be entered into this cross-over design trial. Standard assessments of safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics will be conducted. The clinical endpoints reflect change in symptom frequency and severity via validated scales for IBS. CRF R2 Peptide Agonist (Urocortin 2) Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a condition where the heart cannot pump enough blood to supply all of the body’s organs. It is a result of narrowing of the arteries combined with high blood pressure, which results in increased respiration as well as edema from water retention. In the case of acute symptomology, CHF patients will eventually experience a rapid deterioration and require urgent treatment in the hospital. According to 2005 data from the American Heart Association, nearly 5 million people experience CHF and about 550,000 new cases are diagnosed each year in the United States. CHF becomes more prevalent with age and the number of cases is expected to grow as the overall age of the population increases. Current treatment options include a cocktail of drugs consisting of diuretics to remove excess water, beta blockers and digitalis to improve heart muscle contraction, and/or ACE inhibitors and vasodilators to expand blood vessels. There are in excess of one million hospitalizations each year in the United States for CHF (Mattson Jack, 2006). Urocortin 2 is a recently discovered endogenous peptide ligand of the CRF R2 receptor present in the cardiovascular system, notably the heart and cerebral arterial system. Urocortin 2 plays a role in the control of the hormonal, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and behavioral responses to stress, and has an array of effects on the cardiovascular system and metabolism. Based on preclinical efficacy and safety data, together with its known role in human physiology, we believe that urocortin 2 may have positive hemodynamic effects on cardiac output and blood pressure which may benefit patients with acute CHF. During 2005, we completed a Phase II placebo controlled dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of two dose levels of urocortin 2 in patients with stable CHF. Results of this study demonstrated a dose-related increase in cardiac output of up to 50% with only a modest increase (6%) in heart rate. We completed an additional Phase II study evaluating urocortin 2 over four hour infusions in patients with stable CHF in the first half of 2006. The treatments were generally well tolerated without serious adverse events, abnormalities in electrocardiograms or significant changes in renal function. Positive hemodynamic effects were noted in virtually all patients with increases in cardiac output ranging from 6% to 54%. Our intent is to initiate additional Phase II studies with longer duration of infusion of up to 72 hours. However, additional preclinical studies are necessary to support this longer period of infusion. We expect to complete these preclinical studies in 2007. 9 Table of Contents Selective Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitor (sNRI) In 2006, there were approximately 8 million chronic neuropathic pain sufferers (painful diabetic neuropathy) in the United States alone (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases), representing over $2 billion in branded neuropathic pain product sales (Med Ad News). The rationale for the role of a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (sNRI) in treating neuropathic pain (NP) includes anatomical and neurochemical evidence for the role of both norepinephrine and serotonin (5-HT) in modulation of endogenous analgesic systems. While selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are generally ineffective in treating neuropathic pain, our lead sNRI development candidate has been efficacious in multiple preclinical models of neuropathic pain including the formalin model for persistent pain and the spinal nerve ligation test for mechanical hyperalgesia. Due to its specificity and selectivity, it is hypothesized that the orally-available small molecule may have advantages in the area of safety/tolerability and may also be used synergistically with other classes of compounds used in the treatment of NP, such as gabapentin. A Phase I study is currently being conducted to assess the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics for our sNRI drug candidate. The study design is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose, dose escalation in healthy male volunteers. Research and Development Our research and development focus is on addressing diseases and disorders of the central nervous system and endocrine system, which include therapeutic categories ranging from diabetes to stress-related disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. Central nervous system and endocrinology drug therapies are among the largest therapeutic categories, accounting for over $60 billion in worldwide drug sales in 2005 according to Med Ad News. GnRH Antagonists As previously mentioned, GnRH antagonists may be useful in treating certain hormone dependent diseases. Our discovery work in GnRH antagonists continues to focus on endometriosis and benign prostatic hyperplasia as we continue to search for additional candidates for preclinical and clinical trials. Selective Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors As described above, sNRI may be useful in treating a variety of diseases. Our research in sNRI continues to focus on neuropathic pain as well as complimentary therapeutic categories such as major depressive disorders, stress and urinary incontinence as we continue to search for additional candidates for preclinical and clinical trials. Adenosine2A(A2A) Receptor Antagonists In October 2004, we entered into a licensing agreement with Almirall Prodesfarma, S.A. (Almirall) for the development of adenosine A2A receptor antagonists for Parkinson’s disease. A2A receptor antagonists have been shown to be effective in both pre-clinical models of Parkinson’s disease and in clinical trials with Parkinson’s disease patients. This subtype of receptors for the neuromodulator adenosine is selectively localized on neurons in the brain that also express dopamine D2 receptors. The function of these neurons is impaired due to dopamine depletion that occurs in Parkinson’s disease and antagonism of A2A receptors appears to help restore normal function. We are in the process of identifying a development candidate from this research program. In response to a Therapeutics Development Initiative by the Michael J. Fox Foundation to promote preclinical industry-initiated Parkinson’s Disease research, we applied and were awarded a 2-year grant beginning in early 2007 to study the neuroprotective effects of A2A antagonists in motor function and dyskinesia. Glucose Dependent Insulin Secretagogues Type II diabetes affects more than 19 million Americans (Mattson Jack 2006), and is growing at epidemic proportions world-wide. The disease is characterized by reduced ability to secrete and respond to insulin. Drugs which can enhance the secretion of insulin in response to rising blood glucose levels can improve blood glucose control without increased risk of hypoglycemia. Our scientists are optimizing small molecule compounds that act in this way in order to discover novel oral therapies for glucose control in diabetes. 10 Table of Contents Ion Channel Blockers Capitalizing on our expertise in the area of neurology and pain management in small molecule therapeutics, we have initiated a new program focused on a novel target for the treatment of chronic pain. The target is an ion channel present on sensory nerve fibers that plays a role in transmitting pain signals to the central nervous system. Our scientists hypothesize that blocking this channel could provide alleviation of chronic pain. Our Discovery Technology We utilize a proprietary approach to small molecule drug design that we refer to as multi-channel technology. Multi-Channel Discoverytm. The advent of molecular biology, culminating in the cloning of the human genome, has opened up a vast array of receptors as potential targets for drug discovery. Numerous new technologies have been developed to try to speed the identification of small molecule drugs. These technologies have mainly relied on the creation of large chemical libraries utilizing combinatorial chemistry, automated synthesis of compounds and ultra-high throughput screening machines to test hundreds of thousands of compounds against a particular receptor. While we utilize all of these technologies, we have taken the science to the next step, which we call Multi-Channel Discovery, or MCDtm. MCD is driven by the power of traditional medicinal chemistry accelerated by a suite of computational methodologies that guide the synthesis of highly active small molecules. At the core of MCD is our development of a virtual library containing over 100 million molecules. Utilizing this “universe” of compounds our chemists sequentially apply computer generated molecular screens to filter compounds that will bind to the desired receptor. The unique feature of MCD is that chemists are no longer constrained by the physical properties of a particular compound but rather are free to work with thousands of shapes and charges to design compounds that will fit onto the receptor target. The power of MCD, however, lies not in its application to a single receptor as a drug target but in the database of compounds that are characterized and isolated for the next target from the same class of receptors. Our current focus is on G-protein-coupled receptors. MCD is not a static process, but one that becomes more powerful, more predictive, and more efficient with each subsequent use. It is an artificial intelligence system applied to drug design. More recent enhancements using commercially available software now allow us to “grow” new molecules from an initial seed template that satisfy predetermined arrays of features often 2-D or 3-D pharmacophore. This generates new ideas that the medicinal chemist may not have originally considered and therefore offers another option when engaged in “lead-hopping” activities. In connection with our multi-channel technology, we utilize other advanced technologies to enhance our drug discovery capabilities and to accelerate the drug development process. These technologies include: High-Throughput Screening. We have assembled a chemical library of diverse, low molecular weight organic molecules for lead compound identification and we have implemented robotics screening capabilities linked to our library of compounds that facilitate the rapid identification of new drug candidates for multiple drug targets. We believe that our utilization of high-throughput screening and medicinal and peptide chemistry will enable us to rapidly identify and optimize lead molecules. Our chemical library is enhanced annually by computational selection of commercially available chemical libraries and further diversity is obtained through strategic collaborations. Molecular Biology. Our scientists utilize novel techniques to examine gene expression in a variety of cellular systems. We have developed a sophisticated technique to evaluate the type and quantity of genes in various cellular systems prior to the isolation of genes. We have also developed unique expression vectors and cell lines that allow for the highly efficient protein expression of specific genes. Our drug discovery program creates a significant amount of genetic sequence information. We have developed a bioinformatics system, which we believe will allow us to identify novel genes involved in neurodegeneration. We collect data with automated instruments, and we store and analyze the data using customized computational tools. Gene Sequencing. We apply integrated automated DNA sequencing and gene identification technology in our drug discovery program, enabling us to perform extended gene analysis in a rapid, high-throughput format with 11 Table of Contents independent linkage into a sequence identification database. We have optimized gene sequencing instrumentation for differential display, a technique that may facilitate the rapid identification of novel genes. Our Business Strategy Our goal is to become the leading biopharmaceutical company focused on neurological and endocrine-related diseases and disorders. The following are the key elements of our business strategy: Completing the Development, Commercialization, and Partnering of Our Lead Product Candidate, indiplon. We are currently assembling the NDA resubmission for indiplon capsules and plan to file the resubmission by the end of the second quarter of 2007. We will continue to evaluate indiplon for sleep maintenance for both indiplon capsules and tablets. We will seek a partner, at an appropriate time, to assist us in the worldwide development and commercialization of indiplon. Continuing to Advance and Build Our Product Portfolio Focused on Neurological and Endocrine-Related Diseases and Disorders. We believe that by continuing to advance and build our product pipeline, we can mitigate some of the clinical development risks associated with drug development. We currently have nine programs in various stages of research and development, including six programs in clinical development. We take a portfolio approach to managing our pipeline that balances the size of the market opportunities with clear and defined clinical and regulatory paths to approval. We do this to ensure that we focus our internal development resources on innovative therapies with improved probabilities of technical and commercial success. Identifying Novel Drug Targets to Address Large Unmet Market Opportunities. We seek to identify and validate novel drug targets for internal development or collaboration. For example, the novel drug candidates we have identified to regulate CRF, which is believed to be the central mediator of the body’s stress response, may represent the first new breakthrough for anxiety and depression in over 25 years. GnRH antagonists, compounds designed to reduce the secretions of sex steroids, may represent the first novel non-injectible means of treatment of endometriosis. The creativity and productivity of our discovery research group will continue to be a critical component for our continued success. Our team of approximately 137 biologists and chemists has a goal of delivering one innovative clinical compound each year to fuel our research and development pipeline. Research and development costs were $97.7 million, $106.6 million and $115.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Selectively Establishing Corporate Collaborations with Global Pharmaceutical Companies to Assist in the Development of Our Products and Mitigate Financial Risk while Retaining Significant Commercial Upside. We leverage the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our corporate collaborators to accelerate the development of certain of our potential products, while typically retaining co-promotional rights, and at times commercial rights, in North America. We intend to further leverage our resources by selectively entering into additional strategic alliances to enhance our internal development and commercialization capabilities by licensing our technology. Acquiring Rights to Complementary Drug Candidates and Technologies. We plan to continue to selectively acquire rights to products in various stages of development to take advantage of our drug development capabilities. For example, in June 1998, we licensed exclusive worldwide commercial rights for indiplon from DOV. Additionally, during 2003, we licensed our urocortin 2 product candidate from the Research Development Foundation, and in 2004 we licensed adenosine2A receptor antagonist technology from Almirall. Our Corporate Collaborations and Strategic Alliances One of our business strategies is to utilize strategic alliances to enhance our development and commercialization capabilities. The following is a summary of our significant collaborations/alliances: Pfizer. In December 2002, we announced an exclusive worldwide collaboration with Pfizer to develop and commercialize indiplon. Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer made an upfront payment to us of $100 million and was responsible for all future third-party development, marketing and commercialization costs, with the exception of $30 million for specified development costs that we contributed towards development of indiplon during 2003 and 2004. During 2005, Pfizer began to pay for and support a 200-person Neurocrine sales force to 12 Table of Contents promote Pfizer’s leading antidepressant drug, Zoloft®, to psychiatrists in the United States. As of December 31, 2006, we had recorded revenues of $100.0 million in license fees, $90.5 million in milestones, $127.9 million in sponsored development, and $38.5 million in sales force allowance over the life of the agreement. On June 22, 2006 we and Pfizer agreed to terminate our collaboration and license agreements to develop and co-promote indiplon effective December 19, 2006. As a result, we reacquired all worldwide rights for indiplon capsules and tablets and are responsible for any costs associated with development, registration, marketing and commercialization of indiplon. GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). In July 2001, we announced a worldwide collaboration with an affiliate of GSK to develop and commercialize CRF antagonists for psychiatric, neurological and gastrointestinal diseases. Under the terms of this agreement, we and GSK will conduct a collaborative research program and collaborate in the development of our current lead compounds, as well as novel back-up candidates and second generation compounds identified through the collaborative research. In addition, we will be eligible to receive milestone payments as compounds progress through the research and development process, royalties on future product sales and co-promotion rights in the U.S. in some circumstances. GSK may terminate the agreement at its discretion upon 90 days prior written notice to us. In such event, we may be entitled to specified payments and all product rights would revert to us. As of December 31, 2006, we had recorded revenues of $4.5 million in license fees, $28.8 million in milestone payments, $19.5 million in sponsored research and $1.2 million in reimbursement of development costs, over the life of the agreement. The sponsored research portion of this collaboration agreement concluded in 2005. In 2006, GSK initiated Phase II “proof of concept” clinical trials with a lead CRF R1 antagonist compound for two indications, SocAD and IBS. We recognized $8.0 million in milestones from GSK upon initiation of these two Phase II clinical trials during the year ended December 31, 2006. Intellectual Property We seek to protect our lead compounds, compound libraries, expressed proteins, synthetic organic processes, formulations, assays, cloned targets, screening technology and other technologies by filing, or by causing to be filed on our behalf, patent applications in the United States and abroad. These applications have resulted in the issuance of approximately 61 United States patents. Additionally, we have licensed from institutions such as The Salk Institute, DOV, Almirall, Research Development Foundation and others the rights to issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, and issued and pending foreign filings. We face the risk that one or more of the above patent applications may be denied. We also face the risk that issued patents that we own or license may be challenged or circumvented or may otherwise not provide protection for any commercially viable products we develop. The technologies we use in our research, as well as the drug targets we select, may infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. If this occurs, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue with the commercialization of our products. We are aware of a patent application controlled by another company, which if granted in its broadest scope and held to be valid, could impact the commercialization of our tablet insomnia formulation in the United States unless we obtain a license, which may not be available to us. Based on information available from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), we have learned that the USPTO has examined the pending claims of this application two times and that both times it has rejected all the pending claims. We are also aware that the corresponding patent application in Europe has issued as a patent, and we have filed an opposition against the issued European patent. Indiplon is covered in an issued United States patent, which we sublicensed from DOV. The term of the United States patent is due to expire in 2020. Additional United States patents covering synthesis, formulations and forms of indiplon have been issued with expirations ranging from 2020 to 2023. We intend to seek additional protection of this compound through United States and foreign patent applications directed to the synthesis, formulations and various forms of indiplon. We face the risk that these patents may not issue, or may subsequently be challenged successfully. In addition to the granted and potential patent protection, the United States, the European Union and Japan all provide data protection for new medicinal compounds. If this protection is available, no competitor may use the original applicant’s data as the basis of a generic marketing application during the period 13 Table of Contents of data protection. This period of exclusivity is five years in the United States, six years in Japan and six to ten years in the European Union, measured from the date of FDA, or corresponding foreign, approval. In-Licensed Technology We have in-licensed the following technologies to complement our ongoing clinical and research programs. Most of these licenses extend for the term of the related patent and contain customary royalty, termination and other provisions. • In January 2006, we licensed exclusive rights to a series of small molecule Adenosine receptor modulators from Universiteit Leiden. • In October 2004, we licensed non-exclusive rights to Almirall’s small molecule Adenosine2A receptor antagonists for the treatment of Parkinson’s Disease. • In October 2003, we licensed non-exclusive rights to CRF R2 deficient mice from Research Development Foundation. • In June 2003, we licensed a non-exclusive rights to Cav3.1 human cDNA expressing cell line from University of Virginia Patent Foundation. • In May 2003, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Bicoll GmbH relating to GPCR targets. • In March 2003, we licensed a non-exclusive right to certain green fluorescent proteins. • In January 2003, we licensed exclusive rights to urocortin 2 from Research Development Foundation. • In December 2002, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Biosite Incorporated relating to high affinity antibodies. • In December 2002, we licensed knock-out mice to certain target genes from Deltagen, Inc. • In March 2001, we licensed non-exclusive rights to a saoS-2 cell line from The Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. • In March 2001, we licensed a HERG cell line from Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation. • In August 2000, we licensed non-exclusive rights to CRF R1 deficient mice from the Research Development Foundation. • In August 1999, we licensed non-exclusive rights to the human gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor from Mount Sinai School of Medicine. • In June 1998, we licensed exclusive worldwide rights to indiplon, from DOV. Manufacturing and Distribution We currently rely on, and will continue to rely on, contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our preclinical and anticipated clinical trials. In addition, we intend to rely on third parties to manufacture any products that we may commercialize in the future. We have established an internal pharmaceutical development group to develop manufacturing methods for our product candidates, to optimize manufacturing processes, and to select and transfer these manufacturing technologies to our suppliers. We continue to contract with multiple manufacturers to ensure adequate product supply and to mitigate risk. There currently are a limited number of these manufacturers. Furthermore, some of the contract manufacturers that we have identified to date only have limited experience at manufacturing, formulating, analyzing and packaging our product candidates in quantities sufficient for conducting clinical trials or for commercialization. We currently have no distribution capabilities. In order to independently commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either internally develop distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. 14 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales We currently have limited experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products. Under our collaboration agreement with GSK we may have the opportunity to co-promote any products resulting from the collaboration in the United States. To market any of our other products independently would require us to develop a sales force with technical expertise along with establishing commercial infrastructure and capabilities. Medical Affairs Our Medical Affairs department supports our drug development activities via the generation, communication and dissemination of clinical data and scientific information. Our field based scientific team is currently focused on educational activities related to treatment of insomnia and dissemination of scientific data via presentations at key Congresses and in publications. Government Regulation Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All of our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. Various federal and state statutes and regulations also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage and record-keeping related to such products and their marketing. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Preclinical studies generally are conducted in laboratory animals to evaluate the potential safety and the efficacy of a product. Drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies to the FDA as a part of an IND application that must be approved before clinical trials can begin in humans. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a time consuming and costly three-phase process. Phase I Clinical trials are conducted with a small number of patients to determine the early safety profile, maximum tolerated dose and pharmacological properties of the product in human volunteers. Phase II Clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. Phase III Large-scale, multi-center, comparative clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine safety and efficacy as primary support for regulatory approval by the FDA to market a product candidate for a specific disease. The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the United States and may, at its discretion, reevaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the patient. To date, we have also conducted some of our clinical trials in Europe, Oceania, and South Africa. Clinical trials conducted in foreign countries may also be subject to oversight by regulatory authorities in those countries. Once Phase III trials are completed, drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA in the form of an NDA or a biologics licensing application for approval to commence commercial sales. In response, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if the FDA determines that the application does not meet regulatory approval criteria. FDA approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA may prevent a drug developer from marketing a product under a label for its desired indications, which may impair commercialization of the product. If the FDA approves the NDA, the drug becomes available for physicians to prescribe in the United States. After approval, the drug developer must submit periodic reports to the FDA, including descriptions of any adverse reactions reported. The FDA may request additional studies, known as Phase IV, to evaluate long-term effects. 15 Table of Contents In addition to studies requested by the FDA after approval, a drug developer may conduct other trials and studies to explore use of the approved compound for treatment of new indications. The purpose of these trials and studies and related publications is to broaden the application and use of the drug and its acceptance in the medical community. We will also have to complete an approval process similar to that in the United States in virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to commercialize our product candidates in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the United States. The resulting prices may not be sufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our corporate collaborators. Competition The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of our product candidates from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research institutions, government agencies and academic institutions. Competition may also arise from, among other things: • other drug development technologies; • methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and • new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including insomnia, anxiety, depression, endometriosis, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, and other CNS related disorders. We are developing indiplon for the treatment of insomnia. Ambien®, Sonata®, Lunesta®, and Rozerem® are already marketed for the treatment of insomnia by Sanofi-Aventis, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sepracor, Inc., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, respectively. Recently, in anticipation of the near-term generic entrant of Ambien® or zoplidem, Sanofi-Aventis launched a controlled-release formulation of Ambien® called Ambien CR®. H. Lundbeck A/S and Merck & Co. are developing gaboxadol, a GABA agonist, for sleep disorders, which is currently in Phase III clinical trials. Somaxon Pharmaceuticals is developing doxepine, a H1 antagonist, for the treatment of insomnia, which is currently in Phase III clinical trials. In the area of anxiety disorders, our product candidates will compete with well-established products such as Valium®, marketed by Hoffman-La Roche, Xanax®, marketed by Pfizer, BuSpar®, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, Zoloft® marketed by Pfizer, Wellbutrin® marketed by GlaxoSmithKline and Effexor® marketed by Wyeth, among others, as well as any generic alternatives for each of these products. We are also developing products for depression, which will compete with well-established products in the antidepressant class, including Prozac® and Cymbalta®, marketed by Eli Lilly, Zoloft®, marketed by Pfizer, Paxil®, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, Effexor®, marketed by Wyeth, and Lexapro®, marketed by Forest Laboratories, among others. Some technologies under development by other pharmaceutical companies could result in additional commercial treatments for depression and anxiety. In addition, a number of companies also are conducting research on molecules to block CRF, which is the same mechanism of action employed by our compounds. There are a number of competitors to other potential products in our pipeline. Lupron Depot®, marketed by TAP Pharmaceuticals, and Synarel® and Depo-Provera®, marketed by Pfizer, are gonadotropin-releasing hormone peptide agonists that have been approved for the treatment of endometriosis, infertility, and central precocious puberty. Additionally, Proscar®, an enzyme inhibitor marketed by Merck, and Flomax®, an alpha blocker marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, are both used in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. These drugs may compete with any small molecule gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonists we develop for these indications. If one or more of these products or programs are successful, it may reduce or eliminate the market for our products. 16 Table of Contents Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical testing experience; • manufacturing and marketing experience; and • production facilities. Any of these competitive factors could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, which could negatively affect our stock price. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 267 employees, consisting of 261 full-time and 6 part-time employees. Of the full-time employees, approximately 82 hold Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining arrangement, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists. In addition, we rely on a number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategies. Insurance We maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for products in development. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. In addition, we may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at www.neurocrine.com, when such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission website. Additionally, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company Our near-term success is dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, indiplon, and we may not receive regulatory approvals for it or our other product candidates or approvals may be delayed. Based on the results of preclinical studies and Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials on indiplon, as well as a non-clinical data package related to indiplon manufacturing, formulation and commercial product development, we assembled and filed with the FDA New Drug Applications (NDAs) for both indiplon capsules and indiplon tablets. On May 15, 2006, we received two complete responses from the FDA regarding our indiplon capsule and tablet NDAs. These responses indicated that indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg capsules were approvable (FDA Approvable Letter) and that the 15 mg tablets were not approvable (FDA Not Approvable Letter). 17 Table of Contents The FDA Approvable Letter requested that we reanalyze data from certain preclinical and clinical studies to support approval of indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg capsules for sleep initiation and middle of the night dosing. The FDA Approvable Letter also requested reexamination of the safety analyses. We held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Approvable Letter in August 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon capsules from Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon capsules. At the meeting the FDA requested that the resubmission include further analyses and modifications of analyses previously submitted to address questions raised by the FDA in the initial review. This reanalysis has been substantially completed. The FDA also requested, and we have completed, a supplemental pharmacokinetic/food effect profile of indiplon capsules including several meal types. The NDA for indiplon capsules is currently being updated to include responses to the FDA requests and is targeted to be resubmitted to the FDA by the end of the second quarter of 2007. The FDA Not Approvable Letter requested that we reanalyze certain safety and efficacy data and questioned the sufficiency of the objective sleep maintenance clinical data with the 15 mg tablet in view of the fact that the majority of our indiplon tablet studies were conducted with doses higher than 15 mg. We held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Not Approvable Letter in October 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon tablets from Not Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon tablets. The FDA has requested additional long-term safety and efficacy data with the 15 mg dose for the adult population and the development of a separate dose for the elderly population. In discussions, we and the FDA noted positive efficacy data for sleep maintenance with both indiplon capsules and tablets. On the basis of these discussions, we are formulating a strategy to pursue a sleep maintenance claim for indiplon. The evaluation of indiplon for sleep maintenance is ongoing and includes both indiplon capsules and tablets. If we are unable to conduct the clinical trials or if these clinical trials do not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of indiplon tablets, we may not be able to resubmit the NDA for indiplon tablets. If we do obtain positive results from these clinical trials, we would then refile the NDA for indiplon tablets. The process of preparing and resubmitting the NDAs will require significant resources and could be time consuming and subject to unanticipated delays and cost. Upon resubmission, the FDA could again refuse to approve one or both NDAs, or could still require additional data analysis or clinical trials, which would require substantial expenditures by us and could further delay the approval process. Even if our indiplon NDAs are approved, the FDA may determine that our data do not support elements of the labeling we have requested. In such a case, the labeling actually granted by the FDA could limit the commercial success of the product. The FDA could also require Phase IV, or post-marketing, trials to study the long-term effects of indiplon and could withdraw its approval based on the results of those trials. We face the risk that for any of the reasons described above, as well as other reasons set forth herein, indiplon may never be approved by the FDA or commercialized anywhere in the world. If we are unable to refile one or both NDAs, or the FDA refuses to accept or approve the resubmitted NDAs for any reason or we experience a significant delay in approval and subsequent commercialization of indiplon, our business and reputation would be harmed and our stock price would decline. If we cannot raise additional funding, we may be unable to complete development of our product candidates. We may require additional funding to continue our research and product development programs, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, for operating expenses and to pursue regulatory approvals for product candidates, such as indiplon. We also may require additional funding to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities in the future. We believe that our existing capital resources, together with interest income, and future payments due under our strategic alliances, will be sufficient to satisfy our current and projected funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, these resources might be insufficient to conduct research and development programs as planned. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may be required to curtail significantly one or more of our research and development programs or obtain funds through additional arrangements with corporate collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates. 18 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude of our research and development programs; • progress with preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in filing and pursuing patent applications and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • the establishment of additional strategic alliances; • the cost of commercialization activities and arrangements, including manufacturing of our product candidates; and • the cost of product in-licensing and any possible acquisitions. We intend to seek additional funding through strategic alliances, and may seek additional funding through public or private sales of our securities, including equity securities. In addition, we have financed capital purchases and may continue to pursue opportunities to obtain additional debt financing in the future. However, additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Any additional equity financings will be dilutive to our stockholders and any additional debt financings may involve operating covenants that restrict our business. Because of the termination of our collaboration with Pfizer to develop and co-promote indiplon, we must identify a new partner and enter into a collaboration agreement with them or develop, commercialize, market and sell indiplon by ourselves. On June 22, 2006, we announced that the Company and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) had agreed to terminate our collaboration and license agreements to develop and co-promote indiplon. Under the collaboration, Pfizer had agreed to: • fund substantially all third-party costs related to future indiplon development, manufacturing and commercialization activities; • fund a 200-person Neurocrine sales force that would initially promote Zoloft® and, upon approval of the indiplon NDAs, co-promote indiplon in the United States; • be responsible for obtaining all regulatory approvals outside of the United States and regulatory approvals in the United States after approval of the first indiplon NDA; and • be responsible for sales and marketing of indiplon worldwide. As a result of termination of this collaboration, we reacquired all worldwide rights for indiplon capsules and tablets. We received reimbursement of certain indiplon expenses incurred or committed prior to the June 22, 2006 notice date as well as certain ongoing expenses through December 19, 2006, the effective date of termination. We are responsible for any costs associated with additional data or clinical trials that may be required for resubmission of the indiplon NDAs. We will seek another partner or partners, at an appropriate time, to assist us in the worldwide development and commercialization of indiplon or develop, commercialize, market and sell indiplon by ourselves. We face competition in our search for partners with whom we may collaborate. As a result, we may not be successful in finding another collaboration partner on favorable terms, or at all, and any failure to obtain a new partner on favorable terms could adversely affect indiplon development, commercialization and future sales, which would harm our business. Identifying a new partner and entering into a collaboration agreement with them or developing the necessary infrastructure to commercialize, market and sell indiplon ourselves could cause delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and commercialization of indiplon, which would negatively impact our business. If we choose 19 Table of Contents to commercialize, market and sell indiplon ourselves, we will be required to substantially increase our internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities. The development of the infrastructure necessary to commercialize, market and sell indiplon will require substantial resources and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our other product development efforts. Moreover, we may not be able to hire a sales force that is sufficient in size or has adequate expertise. Pursuant to the collaboration agreement with Pfizer, our sales force ceased detailing Pfizer’s antidepressant Zoloft® to psychiatrists as of June 30, 2006, the date of expiration of Zoloft® patent exclusivity. Pfizer notified us that as of July 1, 2006, Pfizer will no longer reimburse or support our sales force. Consequently, we terminated the entire sales force in July 2006 and incurred expenses of approximately $5.9 million in the third quarter of 2006 related to salary continuation, outplacement services, and other costs related to eliminating the sales force. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully rebuild the sales force in a timely manner, or at all, should indiplon be approved by the FDA. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The market price of our common stock has declined significantly since our May 16, 2006 announcement of the FDA’s action letters with respect to indiplon. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against the company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future, which would be expensive and divert management’s attention and resources from operating the business. Additionally, we may not be successful in having any such suit dismissed or settled within the limits of our insurance. Even if we ultimately receive an “approval” letter for indiplon or any other product, we may be unable to commercialize such products immediately upon receipt of such letter. Commercialization of a product for which we have received an “approval” letter from the FDA could be delayed for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control, including delays in the FDA’s issuance of approvals for our trademarks or delays in the completion of required procedures by agencies other than the FDA, such as the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). For example, one of our competitors received an “approval” letter from the FDA for its proprietary product. In connection with the approval, the FDA recommended that the competitor’s product be classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance by the DEA. However, because the Federal government’s administrative process for formally classifying the product as a Schedule IV controlled substance was not yet complete, the competitor’s product launch was delayed several months. Indiplon, like the competitor’s product, and like all non-benzodiazepine hypnotics, is expected to be a Schedule IV controlled substance requiring classification by the DEA. There can be no assurance that we will receive DEA scheduling promptly. If we receive an “approval” letter for indiplon and are unable to commercialize indiplon promptly thereafter, our business and financial position may be materially adversely affected due to reduced revenue from product sales during the period that commercialization is delayed. In addition, the exclusivity period, or the time during which the FDA will prevent generic pharmaceuticals from introducing a generic copy of the product, begins to run upon receipt of the “approval” letter from the FDA and, therefore, to the extent we are unable to commercialize a product upon receipt of an “approval” letter, our long-term product sales and revenues could be adversely affected. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Any failure or substantial delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates may severely harm our business. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any of our potential products, we must subject these product candidates to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and may take years to complete. 20 Table of Contents In connection with the clinical trials of indiplon and our other product candidates, we face the risks that: • the product may not prove to be effective; • we may discover that a product candidate may cause harmful side effects; • the results may not replicate the results of earlier, smaller trials; • we or the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may suspend the trials; • the results may not be statistically significant; • patient recruitment may be slower than expected; and • patients may drop out of the trials. For example, we announced in 2006 that the results of our Phase II clinical trials using our altered peptide ligand (APL) technology did not meet their primary endpoints, although the products were safe and well tolerated. Based on these results, we discontinued the development of our APL programs. Late stage clinical trials are often conducted with patients having the most advanced stages of disease. During the course of treatment, these patients can die or suffer other adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agent being tested but which can nevertheless adversely affect clinical trial results. We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses and negative operating cash flows for the near future, and we may never achieve sustained profitability. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including net losses of $107.2 million and $22.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $407.4 million and $300.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We do not expect to be profitable for the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, we will be responsible for any costs associated with additional data or clinical trials that may be required for resubmission of the indiplon NDAs. We have not yet obtained regulatory approvals of any products and, consequently, have not generated revenues from the sale of products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drugs, we may not be profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures as we: • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • develop, formulate, manufacture and commercialize our drugs; • in-license or acquire new product development opportunities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • hire additional clinical, scientific and marketing personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the near future as we fund our operating losses, in-licensing or acquisition opportunities, and capital expenditures. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow. We may not be able to generate these revenues, and we may never achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Even if we become profitable, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Because our operating results may vary significantly in future periods, our stock price may decline. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate, among other reasons, due to our achievement of product development objectives and milestones, clinical trial enrollment and expenses, research and development expenses and the timing and nature of contract manufacturing and contract research payments. A high portion of our costs are predetermined on an annual basis, due in part to our significant research and development 21 Table of Contents costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect operating results in a quarter. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We depend on continuing our current collaboration and developing additional collaborations to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our strategy for developing and commercializing our products is dependent upon maintaining our current arrangements and establishing new arrangements with research collaborators, corporate collaborators and others. We have an active collaboration agreement with GlaxoSmithKline and previously have had collaborations with Pfizer, Wyeth, Johnson & Johnson, and Eli Lilly and Company. We historically have been dependent upon these corporate collaborators to provide adequate funding for a number of our programs. Under these arrangements, our corporate collaborators are typically responsible for: • selecting compounds for subsequent development as drug candidates; • conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining required regulatory approvals for these drug candidates; and • manufacturing and commercializing any resulting drugs. Because we expect to continue to rely heavily on corporate collaborators including for the future worldwide development and commercialization of indiplon, the development of our projects would be substantially delayed if one or more of our current or future collaborators: • failed to select a compound that we have discovered for subsequent development into marketable products; • failed to gain the requisite regulatory approvals of these products; • did not successfully commercialize products that we originate; • did not conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner; • did not devote sufficient time and resources to our partnered programs or potential products; • terminated its alliance with us; • developed, either alone or with others, products that may compete with our products; • disputed our respective allocations of rights to any products or technology developed during our collaborations; or • merged with a third party that wants to terminate the collaboration. These issues and possible disagreements with current or future corporate collaborators could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of many of our product candidates. Furthermore, disagreements with these parties could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If any of these issues arise, it may delay the development and commercialization of drug candidates and, ultimately, our generation of product revenues. We license some of our core technologies and drug candidates from third parties. If we default on any of our obligations under those licenses, we could lose our rights to those technologies and drug candidates. We are dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. These licenses typically subject us to various commercialization, reporting and other obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights. For example, we have licensed indiplon from DOV. In addition, we license some of the core technologies used in our collaborations from third parties, including the CRF receptor we license from The Salk Institute and use in our CRF program, Urocortin 2 which we license from Research Development Foundation, and the Adenosine2A receptor antagonist we license from Almirall. Other in-licensed technologies, such as the GnRH receptor we license from Mount Sinai School of Medicine, will be important for future collaborations for our GnRH program. If we were to default on our obligations under any of our licenses, we could lose some or all of our 22 Table of Contents rights to develop, market and sell products covered by these licenses. Likewise, if we were to lose our rights under a license to use proprietary research tools, it could adversely affect our existing collaborations or adversely affect our ability to form new collaborations. We also face the risk that our licensors could, for a number of reasons, lose patent protection or lose their rights to the technologies we have licensed, thereby impairing or extinguishing our rights under our licenses with them. Because the development of our product candidates is subject to a substantial degree of technological uncertainty, we may not succeed in developing any of our product candidates. All of our product candidates are in research, clinical development or in registration with the FDA. Only a small number of research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. These reasons include the possibilities that the potential products may: • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical studies or clinical trials; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all; • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; • be difficult to manufacture on a large scale; or • be uneconomical to commercialize or fail to achieve market acceptance. If any of our products encounters any of these potential problems, we may never successfully market that product. Since indiplon is our most advanced product program, our business and reputation would be particularly harmed, and our stock price likely would be harmed, if we fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or achieve market acceptance. We have limited marketing experience, sales force or distribution capabilities, and if our products are approved, we may not be able to commercialize them successfully. Although we do not currently have any marketable products, our ability to produce revenues ultimately depends on our ability to sell our products if and when they are approved by the FDA. We currently have limited experience in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or fail to enter into successful marketing arrangements with third parties, our product revenues will suffer. The independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we rely upon to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it may delay or prevent the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. Moreover, these independent investigators and CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If independent investigators and CROs assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. 23 Table of Contents We have no manufacturing capabilities. If third-party manufacturers of our product candidates fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials and product introductions may be delayed and our costs may rise. We have in the past utilized, and intend to continue to utilize, third-party manufacturers to produce the drug compounds we use in our clinical trials and for the potential commercialization of our future products. We have no experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and do not currently have any manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we depend on, and will continue to depend on, several contract manufacturers for all production of products for development and commercial purposes. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers, we will not be able to develop or commercialize our products. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is subject to specific FDA regulations. Our third-party manufacturers might not comply with FDA regulations relating to manufacturing our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes or other regulatory requirements now or in the future. Our reliance on contract manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks: • contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, and also may experience shortages in qualified personnel. As a result, our contract manufacturers might not be able to meet our clinical schedules or adequately manufacture our products in commercial quantities when required; • switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly on acceptable terms, or at all; • our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store or distribute our products; and • drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practices and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Our current dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may harm our profit margin, if any, on the sale of our future products and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Potential future impairments under SFAS 144 could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” we assess our long-lived assets for impairment quarterly or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If indicators of impairment exist, we assess the recoverability of the affected long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets can be recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows. If the carrying amount is not recoverable, we measure the amount of any impairment by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the present value of the expected future cash flows (fair value) associated with the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset were determined to be impaired, an impairment loss to write-down the carrying value of the asset to fair value would be required. For example, our December 31, 2006 balance sheet reflects $94.0 million of prepaid royalties related to our acquisition in February 2004 of Wyeth’s financial interest in indiplon for approximately $95.0 million, consisting of $50.0 million in cash and $45.0 million in our common stock. This transaction decreased our overall royalty obligation on sales of indiplon from six percent to three and one-half percent. This transaction has been recorded as a long-term asset and will be amortized over the commercialization period of indiplon, based primarily upon indiplon sales. Given the FDA letters we received on our NDA submissions for indiplon and the subsequent cancellation of the collaboration agreement with Pfizer, we determined that indicators of potential impairment existed. We performed the undiscounted cash flow analysis and determined that 24 Table of Contents the carrying value of the prepaid royalty was recoverable as of December 31, 2006. However, events both within and outside of our control, such as competition from other insomnia therapeutic agents, disease prevalence, further FDA actions related to indiplon, our ability to partner indiplon, insomnia market dynamics and general market conditions may have an impact on our ability to recover the carrying value of this asset in the future. If we determine that the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows relating to this prepaid royalty is less than the carrying amount of the asset, the asset would be impaired, and we would be required to record a non-cash impairment loss to write-down the carrying value of the asset to fair value. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause us to fail to be profitable in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified scientists or if any of our key senior executives discontinues his or her employment with us, it may delay our development efforts. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development objectives. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants are employed by employers other than us. They may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Governmental and third-party payors may impose sales and pharmaceutical pricing controls on our products that could limit our product revenues and delay profitability. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may reduce our potential revenues. These payors’ efforts could decrease the price that we receive for any products we may develop and sell in the future. In addition, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we develop. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, or if price controls are enacted, our product revenues will suffer. If physicians and patients do not accept our products, we may not recover our investment. The commercial success of our products, if they are approved for marketing, will depend upon the acceptance of our products as safe and effective by the medical community and patients. The market acceptance of our products could be affected by a number of factors, including: • the timing of receipt of marketing approvals; • the safety and efficacy of the products; 25 Table of Contents • the success of existing products addressing our target markets or the emergence of equivalent or superior products; and • the cost-effectiveness of the products. In addition, market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, and, to date, we have very limited sales and marketing experience or capabilities. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept our products as being safe, effective, superior and/or cost-effective, we may not recover our investment. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Over the course of the last 12 months, the price of our common stock has ranged from approximately $8 per share to approximately $73 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many factors, including: • developments related to the FDA approval process for indiplon; • the results of our clinical trials; • developments concerning our strategic alliance agreements; • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or others; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; • comments by securities analysts; • general market conditions; • fluctuations in our operating results; • government regulation; • health care reimbursement; 26 Table of Contents • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; and • public concern as to the safety of our drugs. Risks Related to Our Industry We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates or approvals may be delayed. Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. Any failure to receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates would harm our business. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we fail or our collaborators or licensees fail to obtain or maintain, or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any products we develop, our ability to receive product or royalty revenues, our recovery of prepaid royalties, and our liquidity and capital resources. All of our products are in research and development, and we have not yet received regulatory approval to commercialize any product from the FDA or any other regulatory body. In addition, we have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may impede our ability to obtain such approvals. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The approval process may take many years to complete and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. If our potential products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for our products, if any, may be reduced. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of our product candidates from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Competition may also arise from, among other things: • other drug development technologies; • methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and • new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including insomnia, anxiety, depression, endometriosis, irritable bowel syndrome, pain, Parkinson’s Disease, and other neuro-endocrine related diseases and disorders, and there are a number of competitors to products in our research pipeline. If one or more of our competitors’ products or programs are successful, the market for our products may be reduced or eliminated. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; 27 Table of Contents • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical testing experience; • manufacturing and marketing experience; and • production facilities. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products based on our discoveries, which may reduce demand for our products. Our success will depend on our ability to, among other things: • obtain patent protection for our products; • preserve our trade secrets; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; and • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and internationally. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we intend to seek patent protection for our proprietary technology and compounds. However, we face the risk that we may not obtain any of these patents and that the breadth of claims we obtain, if any, may not provide adequate protection of our proprietary technology or compounds. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our commercial collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and some, but not all, of our commercial collaborators and consultants. However, if our employees, commercial collaborators or consultants breach these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, although we own a number of patents, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure you how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in limitations of their coverage. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. Interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The technologies we use in our research as well as the drug targets we select may infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us or our collaborators with respect to technologies used in potential products. We are aware of a patent application controlled by another company, which if granted in its broadest scope and held to be valid, could impact the commercialization of our indiplon tablets in the United States unless we obtain a license, which may not be available to us. Based on information available from the USPTO, we have learned that the USPTO has examined the 28 Table of Contents pending claims of this application two times and that both times it has rejected all the pending claims. We are also aware that the corresponding patent application in Europe has issued as a patent, and we have filed an opposition against the issued European patent. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or our collaborators could be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us or our collaborators rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we could be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if our collaborators or we were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. The use of any of our potential products in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash reserves and could cause our stock price to fall. Our activities involve hazardous materials, and we may be liable for any resulting contamination or injuries. Our research activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If an accident occurs, a court may hold us liable for any resulting damages, which may harm our results of operations and cause us to use a substantial portion of our cash reserves, which would force us to seek additional financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 