ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Events which negatively affect travel levels adversely affect our business. Demand for our products is affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety of travel, particularly air travel, the international political climate and the political climate of destination countries. Hostilities in the Middle East and other regions, events such as terrorist attacks and the threat of additional attacks, and the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, may have an adverse impact on demand for our products. Additionally, the incidence or spread of contagious diseases (such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, commonly known as SARS, or Avian flu) may lead to a general reluctance by the public to travel, which could cause a decrease in demand for our luggage products and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Any restrictions on airline activity imposed as a result of increased regulation (such as in relation to noise pollution, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental laws) may also adversely affect our business. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our sales. Our sales levels are correlated to general economic and business conditions in the global markets in which we sell our products. Our business is subject to economic conditions in our major markets, including recession, inflation, deflation, general weakness in retail and travel markets, and changes in consumer purchasing power. Any significant declines in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products and adversely affect our sales and gross profit margins. Moreover, a downturn in the economy may particularly affect consumer purchases of premium or luxury items, such as Samsonite Black Label and Lambertson Truex products. 12 Our inability to respond to changes in consumer demands and market trends could adversely affect our sales. Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product and market trends as well as to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our future business prospects are dependent on our ability to enhance our existing luggage products and accessories and to develop and market innovative new offerings that achieve market acceptance. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Consumer preferences differ in markets around the world. For example, in the United States, consumer preferences are primarily driven by price and features of the product, while in Europe and Asia, there is an increased focus on brand recognition. The enhancement of our luggage products and development of additional products are subject to all of the risks associated with new product development, including unanticipated delays, misjudgment of market trends, expenses or other difficulties that could result in the abandonment of or substantial change in our product development projects and the marketing or acceptance of these enhancements or new offerings. In addition, failure to continually enhance our products and to keep pace with market trends could result in a decrease in sales of our products. Our ability to continue our sales growth is dependent upon the further implementation of our growth strategies, which we may not be able to sustain. During recent years, we have experienced a growth in sales driven in part by our new products and geographical expansion and retail expansion strategies. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful continuation of these strategies. This includes diversification of our product offerings to include items beyond luggage, such as footwear and licensed products, and expansion of our Company-operated Samsonite retail and outlet locations. There can be no assurance that the expansion of our product offerings will be successful or that new products will be profitable or generate sales comparable to those we have recently experienced or that our increased emphasis on growth in the luxury goods market will result in our brand names and products achieving a high degree of consumer acceptance in that market. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventory for some products and missed opportunities for other products. Implementation of our business strategy also involves the continued expansion of our network of Company-operated retail stores around the world. Over the next year, our goal is to open and operate directly or through franchises a number of additional Samsonite Black Label retail locations in large-market, fashion-oriented international shopping districts in major cities throughout the world, as well as a number of additional Samsonite stores in high-traffic street locations and/or shopping malls. Our ability to continue opening these new store locations depends upon, among other things, our ability to operate them at a profit, finance their opening and operations, secure them at reasonable rental rates and hire and train management and personnel to staff the stores. If we cannot address these challenges successfully, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rate we currently contemplate. Part of our retail strategy relies upon our ability to lease quality locations at competitive prices. We may incur significant costs if our retail strategy fails and we are forced to close retail locations. We lease the majority of our Company-operated retail stores. We are planning to increase our network of Company-operated retail stores around the world. Accordingly, the success of this aspect of our strategy is in part dependent on our ability to secure affordable, long-term leases and to secure renewals of such leases. Additional Samsonite Black Label retail stores will be located in areas typically associated with the sale of luxury goods. Such properties are generally highly sought after, and we may face intense competition from other companies for these locations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase or lease desirable store locations or renew existing store leases on acceptable economic terms. 13 In addition, we may be subject to potential financial risk associated with the cost of prematurely terminated leases. Failure of the Company-operated retail stores to grow revenues as expected may oblige management to close a store (or stores) and thereby terminate a lease agreement prior to its expiration. While we try to enter into leases that provide us with flexibility in terms of termination, premature termination of a lease agreement may cause us to incur asset write-downs for store lease acquisition costs, leasehold improvements, fixtures and fittings or inventory or incur a portion of the future lease costs after termination. In addition, it is possible that we may have to incur rental and other charges after closing such stores for undetermined periods up to the lease expiry date. We must be able to maintain effective distribution channels that serve our customers’ purchasing patterns, and satisfactory control of our wholesale and license distribution channels is critical. The retail market is marked by rapid changes in distribution channels and customer purchasing patterns. Our products are sold through diverse distribution channels, from our Company-operated stores, through our website, and through retail locations of others, including department and specialty stores, national and mass merchant retailers, and warehouse clubs. Therefore, maintaining good relationships with superior distribution or joint venture partners and establishing new distribution channels to better serve our customers’ purchasing patterns is key to our continued success. The increasing bargaining power of entities in the wholesale sector could result in them exerting downward price pressure on products that they distribute. Additionally, if distribution channel trends and purchasing preferences change and we are not positioned to take advantage of such changes, we could be excluded from important market segments and our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. To achieve the geographical breadth that we are targeting, in some countries we enter into joint ventures to run our business. There can be no assurance that such joint ventures will prove successful. We also rely on our ability to control our distribution networks and licensees to ensure that our products are sold in environments consistent with our brand image. Any action by any significant wholesale customer or licensee, such as presenting Samsonite products in a manner inconsistent with our preferred positioning, could be damaging to our brand image. If, due to regulatory, legal or other constraints, we are in any way unable to control our wholesale distribution networks and licensees, the Samsonite brand image, and therefore our results and profitability, may be adversely affected. Some of our product lines are manufactured under licensed trademarks and any failure to retain or renew such licenses on acceptable terms may have an adverse effect on our business. Our license agreement with Lacoste allows us to design, manufacture and market an extensive range of luggage, bags and leather goods under the Lacoste brand name. Products sold under the Lacoste brand name accounted for revenues of $61.0 million, or 5.8 percent of our revenues, in fiscal year 2007. Additionally, we are party to a license agreement with the Timberland Company, or Timberland, which allows us to design, manufacture and market luggage, business and computer cases and backpacks under the Timberland brand name. The Lacoste license agreement requires us, in each year, to achieve increasing minimum net sales of Lacoste branded goods in the various territories in which we have agreed to sell such goods. The Timberland license agreement requires us in each year to achieve increasing minimum net sales of Timberland branded goods and to make increasing annual royalty payments to Timberland. If these minimum net sales are not achieved, Lacoste and Timberland have the right under their respective license agreements to terminate their respective license agreements for a particular territory (in the case of the Lacoste license agreement) or in full (in the case of the Timberland license agreement). The Lacoste and the Timberland license agreements expire on December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining or renewing the Lacoste or Timberland licenses, or other licenses which are of commercial value to us, on terms that are acceptable to us. The loss of the Lacoste or Timberland licenses could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Failure to maintain the stature of our brands or a positive image of our company could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our financial performance is influenced by the success of our brands, which, in turn, depends on factors such as product design, the distinct character of the products, the materials used to manufacture the products, the image of our stores, communication activities, including advertising, public relations and marketing, and general corporate profile. Additionally, our business strategy relies, in part, upon the successful carry-over of the Samsonite brand name to other product categories and the luxury goods market. Failure of the Samsonite brand name to carry-over to other products or the luxury goods market, or failure to maintain or increase the stature of our pre-existing brands or to successfully develop new brands could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to realize the cost-saving benefits associated with the use of overseas third party vendors, and our vendors may be unable to deliver products in a timely cost-effective manner or to meet our quality standards. A significant portion of our net sales is derived from products that are manufactured by third party vendors, a majority of which are located in Asia and Eastern Europe. A significant change in these countries’ economic policies could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in such countries. The implementation of higher tariffs, quotas or other restrictive trade policies by those countries to which these third party vendors export their products could negatively impact the cost-saving benefits of these outsourced operations overseas. These factors could adversely affect our ability to maintain or commence low-cost operations outside the United States and the European Union. Additionally, the violation of labor or other laws by any of our third party vendors, or the divergence of third party vendors’ labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical by us or others in the United States and the European Union, could damage our reputation and force us to find alternative manufacturing sources. These third party vendors are subject to many risks, including foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions and trade issues. These factors, among others, could influence the ability of these third party vendors to make or export our products cost-effectively or at all or to procure some of the materials used in these products. We depend upon the ability of these vendors to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity. Additionally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of raw materials or labor for these third party vendors, which they could pass along to us, resulting in higher costs and lower margins for our products, if we cannot pass these higher costs on to customers. If any of these factors were to render a particular country undesirable or impractical as a source of supply, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on these vendors and the lack of direct control over these operations could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, a vendor’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, demand reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. We are dependent on our trademarks and patents, and our products may be the subject of counterfeit reproduction. As a leading luggage manufacturer and retailer, we are dependent on our ability to protect and promote our trademarks, patents and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks are adequately supported by applications for registrations, existing registrations and other legal protections in our principal markets. We own approximately 121 U.S. patents and approximately 802 patents (i.e., patents of inventions, industrial design registrations and utility models) in selected foreign countries. In addition, 15 we have approximately 352 patent applications for such intellectual property registrations pending worldwide. We pursue a policy of seeking patent protection where appropriate for inventions embodied in our products. The loss of some or all of the protection of the patents could make it easier for other companies to enter our markets and compete against us by eroding our ability to differentiate our products. We cannot exclude the possibility that our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or that we may be unable to register our intellectual property rights or otherwise adequately protect them in some jurisdictions. In addition, there can be no assurance that other companies will not be able to design and build competing products in a manner that does not infringe our patents. Furthermore, the luggage retail market is subject to numerous instances of product counterfeiting and other trademark infringements. A significant presence of counterfeit products on the market can negatively impact both the sales and the brand image of a manufacturer. Although we devote substantial resources on a worldwide basis to the protection of our intellectual property rights including, when appropriate, taking legal action, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect the use of our intellectual property will be successful. The law and practice relating to the protection of intellectual property rights varies greatly from country to country and, as a result, our rights are more vulnerable in some jurisdictions than others. If any of our products are the subject of widespread counterfeit production or other similar trademark infringements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The luggage market is highly fragmented; we face competition from many smaller competitors. We compete with many domestic and international companies in our global markets. We compete based on brand name recognition, consumer advertising, product innovation, quality, differentiation of product features, customer service and price. The worldwide luggage market is highly fragmented, meaning that we have many competitors. Our products compete with other brands of products within their product category and with private label products sold by retailers, including some of our wholesale customers. We compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of luggage, accessories and other products for the limited space available for the display of these products to the consumer. Given the general availability of contract-manufactured products, barriers to entry into the manufacturing of softside luggage are relatively low and we face competition from many low-cost manufacturers of inexpensive, softside luggage products. For example, we have faced increased competition in the low to mid-end of the luggage market due to competitors introducing new products at lower prices. If our competitors reduce the price at which they sell their products, we may be forced to reduce the price of our products which may reduce our revenues and/or gross profit margins. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively in the future in our markets. Failure to attract and retain key and qualified personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our future success depends, in large part, on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and design teams who execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of Marcello Bottoli, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive industry knowledge. We are a party to employment agreements with these executives which provide for compensation and other benefits. The agreements also provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. The loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from that loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur costs to replace key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing employees in a timely manner. As the business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level, sales and other employees. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. 16 Certain corporate transactions require the approval of our major stockholders. Our three major stockholders and their affiliates control approximately 85% of our voting stock. Samsonite is a party to a July 31, 2003 Stockholders’ Agreement with the major stockholders and others relating to the ownership rights and corporate governance of Samsonite. Pursuant to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement, the major stockholders have agreed to take all actions in their power to elect nominees selected by the major stockholders to our board of directors in the future. As a result, eight of the ten members of our board of directors are nominees of the major stockholders. In addition, our ability to take certain actions, including amending our charter, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain corporate actions (including debt incurrences, stock issuances, acquisitions, asset sales and the like), is subject to the written consent of either all or two-thirds (depending on the action) of the major stockholders so long as the major stockholders collectively continue to hold at least 25% of our outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future, our major stockholders will exercise significant influence over our board of directors and business and operations. The level of ownership of the voting stock by the major stockholders may have the effect of making more difficult, or of discouraging, absent the support of such major stockholders, a proxy contest, a merger involving Samsonite, a tender offer, an open market purchase program or purchases of Samsonite common stock that could give holders of such stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The business of our subsidiaries with international operations may be adversely affected by international business risks and fluctuations in currency exchange and translation rates. Approximately 65.2 percent of our net revenues for fiscal year 2007 were attributable to our European and other foreign operations, which include significant operations throughout Asia and Latin America, and approximately 34.8 percent of our net revenues for fiscal year 2007 were attributable to our U.S. sales and licensing revenues. In addition to our U.S. and European distribution subsidiaries, we have wholly owned distribution subsidiaries in Canada, Latin America (Mexico, Colombia and Peru) and Asia (Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Japan, Taiwan and Malaysia). We have manufacturing subsidiaries in Belgium, Hungary and India. We are also a partner in joint ventures in Europe (Italy and Russia), Latin America (Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay), Asia (South Korea, India, Thailand and Australia), and the Middle East (United Arab Emirates). Our operations may be affected by economic, political, social and governmental conditions in the countries where we have manufacturing facilities or where our products are sold. In addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by unfavorable exchange rates, new or additional currency or exchange controls, other restrictions being imposed on our operations, or expropriation. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to the euro and other currencies. In fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, 65.2%, 62.5% and 61.8%, respectively, of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we also face a currency translation risk to the extent that the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of our subsidiaries and joint ventures are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Most of those subsidiaries operate using the functional currency of the country in which it is located. During fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, our results of operations were positively impacted by the strengthening of the euro and other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. While exchange rate fluctuations over the past several years have been to our benefit, future material fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a misstatement in our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements for fiscal year 2006, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that, as of January 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting because of a material weakness in our internal control over accounting for income taxes, including the calculation of deferred tax asset valuation allowances, which resulted in us having to restate our consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2003, 2004 and 2005. We engaged an independent registered public accounting firm (other than our auditors, KPMG LLP) to perform an analysis of our internal control over accounting for and disclosure of income taxes. In response to their recommendations, we have expanded our tax accounting staff and undertaken a more rigorous analysis of controls over tax accounting and disclosures. As a result, as of January 31, 2007, we did not have any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Any future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as our stock price. Our business may be adversely affected if we continue to encounter complications in connection with the implementation of our SAP information management software. We are in the process of replacing all of our various business information systems worldwide with the SAP system. As of February 2007, we had implemented the SAP system in Canada and had commenced implementation in the United States. We expect implementation of the entire system to be completed in calendar year 2009. We have, to date, experienced some delays in this implementation. These delays and other implementation difficulties have led to shipping delays and a slowdown of sales, not all of which may be recovered. Any further delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to our new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to ship our products in a timely manner, accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records and to report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources and impact our ability to manage our business and our results of operations. We have relocated certain of our management functions to the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). Such relocation, if not structured in an appropriate manner on an ongoing basis, could lead to material adverse tax consequences for the group. We have relocated a number of our executive officers and other senior management, together with certain of our management functions, to the U.K. We have sought to structure the relocation and the ongoing exercise of such functions in a manner that will not cause Samsonite Corporation to become tax resident in the U.K. or to have a permanent establishment there for U.K. tax purposes. There is no advance clearance procedure in the U.K. for agreeing whether a company is resident in the U.K. or whether a company has a U.K. permanent establishment but, as part of our relocation process, we have submitted applications to the U.K. and U.S. tax authorities with a view to agreeing a bilateral “Advance Pricing Agreement” in relation to the transfer pricing of certain management services to be provided from the United Kingdom to the group, which applications include details of the relocation and the management functions being or to be carried out in the U.K. While we believe that we are structuring our management functions in a way that achieves our objectives, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in doing so, or that the U.K. tax authorities will agree with our approach. Should we not succeed in structuring our affairs so Samsonite Corporation does not to become tax resident in the U.K. and so Samsonite Corporation does not to have a permanent establishment there, or should the U.K. tax authorities disagree with our approach, it is our intention to seek alternative solutions in relation to the 18 location and structure of our management functions. The inability to implement this transition without Samsonite Corporation becoming resident or having a permanent establishment in the U.K. could lead to material adverse tax consequences for the group. We have a leveraged capital structure which could adversely affect our financial health, and our ability to service our indebtedness and to grow our business. As of January 31, 2007 we had total indebtedness of $501.9 million and a stockholders’ deficit of $222.3 million. Our substantial debt could have consequences to security holders, including: · it may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the cash flow available to us for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; · it may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development and general corporate purposes; · it may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in our industry; and · it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage to less-leveraged competitors. There can be no assurance that our cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for us to make payments on our indebtedness or meet our other obligations in the future. If our cash flow and other capital resources are insufficient, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, try to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure our debt, which among other things could potentially impair our growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any of those alternatives would be successful or allow us to meet our scheduled obligations in the future. If interest rates rise, our operating results may decline due to higher borrowing costs. We are party to a senior credit facility, consisting of a $450 million senior secured term loan facility which was drawn in full as of January 31, 2007 and an $80 million senior secured revolving credit facility of which $18 million was drawn at January 31, 2007. Borrowings under the senior credit facility bear interest at rates adjusted periodically depending on our financial performance as measured each fiscal quarter and interest rate market conditions. We also have other short-term credit lines that we use from time to time to finance our foreign operations that are variable rate obligations. At January 31, 2007, we had borrowings of $12.1 million under these other short-term credit lines. Borrowings under the senior credit facility and the short-term credit lines vary from time to time throughout the year as our business needs fluctuate. If interest rates rise, our interest expense will increase and our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are subject to restrictive covenants imposed by our senior credit facility and by an agreement we are party to with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. During fiscal 2007, the Company entered into a new senior credit facility (the “Senior Credit Facility”) consisting of a senior secured term loan facility, a senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and a letter of credit sub-facility. The Senior Credit Facility contains financial and other covenants that, among other things, limit the Company’s ability to draw down the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility, engage in transactions with its affiliates, incur any additional debt outside of the Senior Credit Facility, create new liens on any property, make acquisitions, participate in certain mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, liquidations, asset sales, investments, or make distributions or cash dividend payments to its equity holders or with respect to its subordinated debt. Such covenants will affect our operating flexibility and may require us to seek the consent of the lenders to certain transactions that we 19 may wish to carry out. Agreements governing future indebtedness could also contain significant financial and operating restrictions. Any failure to comply with the covenants in our Senior Credit Facility or in any other indebtedness to which we are a party could result in an event of default, which could permit acceleration of the relevant indebtedness and acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. We are also party to an agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, pursuant to which we have granted to PBGC an equal and ratable lien in an amount of $66.6 million in the assets pledged as security under our credit facility referred to above. We have also agreed not to transfer any of our assets held in the United States to any of our subsidiaries or other businesses outside of the United States (other than in the ordinary course of business) for the term of the agreement. We have significant underfunded and unfunded U.S. pension and post-retirement obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Since fiscal year end January 31, 2003, the estimated accumulated benefit obligation (the actuarial present value of benefits attributed to employee service and compensation levels prior to the measurement date without considering future compensation levels), or ABO, has exceeded the fair value of the assets of our pensions plans. This result is primarily due to the decline in equity markets during and after 2002 and a decline in the discount rate used to estimate the pension liability because of lower U.S. interest rates since 2002. The ABO exceeded the fair value of plan assets as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 by $53.0 million, $56.9 million and $42.2 million, respectively. The same facts that affected ABO also required that we take a charge (credit) to other comprehensive income (loss) of $(6.4) million, $9.2 million and $17.8 million, for the years ended January 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Accounting rule changes adopted as of January 31, 2007 required the Company to accrue an additional liability for underfunded pension and post-retirement obligations of $1.3 million, reduce intangible assets by $1.3 million and increase accumulated comprehensive loss by $2.6 million. Funding amounts for the underfunded U.S. pension plan are determined by regulatory requirements, which have been changed recently and will become effective in 2008 with transition rules that apply for four years. The Company estimates that the minimum required contributions and payments for the U.S. pension and post-retirement benefits in fiscal 2008 will be approximately $16.5 million and from $6.0 million to $27.0 million in fiscal years 2009 - 2012. Future market conditions and interest rates significantly impact future assets and liabilities of our pension plans and future minimum required funding levels, and similar charges or credits to stockholders’ equity may be required in the future upon measurement of plan obligations at the end of each plan year. We cannot assure investors that we will make dividend payments in the future. On December 20, 2006, our Board of Directors approved a special cash distribution in an aggregate amount of $175 million, consisting of dividends on our shares of common stock and our then outstanding convertible preferred stock and certain dilution adjustment payments to holders of certain of our outstanding stock options (the “Distribution”). On January 5, 2007, as part of the Distribution we paid dividends in an amount of approximately $0.23 per share of common stock. Other than the dividends paid in connection with the Distribution, we have not declared any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be a business decision to be made by our Board of Directors from time to time based on such considerations as the Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, dividends are payable only out of funds legally available under Delaware law, subject to any restrictions contained in our debt instruments. The payment of dividends on our common stock is currently limited by certain provisions of our senior credit facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 20 