ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Events which negatively affect consumer travel levels, or a downturn in the economy, negatively affect our business. Demand for our products is affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety of travel, particularly air travel, the international political climate and the political climate of destination countries. Hostilities in the Middle East and other regions, events such as terrorist attacks and the threat of additional attacks, and the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of travelling, may have an adverse impact on demand for our products. Additionally, the incidence or spread of contagious diseases (such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, commonly known as SARS, or Avian flu) may lead to a general reluctance by the public to travel, which could cause a decrease in demand for our luggage 12 products and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our sales levels are correlated to general economic and business conditions in the global markets in which we sell our products. Our business is subject to economic conditions in our major markets, including recession, inflation, deflation, general weakness in retail and travel markets, and changes in consumer purchasing power. Any significant declines in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products and adversely affect our sales and gross profit margins. Our inability to respond to changes in consumer demands and market trends could adversely affect our sales. Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product and market trends as well as to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our future business prospects are dependent on our ability to enhance our existing luggage products and accessories and to develop and market innovative new offerings that achieve market acceptance. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. The enhancement of our luggage products and development of additional products are subject to all of the risks associated with new product development, including unanticipated delays, misjudgement of market trends, expenses or other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in our product development projects and the marketing or acceptance of these enhancements or new offerings. In addition, failure to continually enhance our products and to keep pace with market trends could result in a decrease in sales of our products. Our ability to continue our sales growth is dependent upon the further implementation of our growth strategies, which we may not be able to sustain. During recent years, we have experienced a growth in sales driven by our new products and geographical expansion strategies. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful continuation of these strategies. This includes diversification of our product offerings to include items beyond luggage, such as footwear and licensed products, and expansion of our Company-operated Samsonite retail and outlet locations. There can be no assurance that the expansion of our product offerings will be successful or that new products will be profitable or generate sales comparable to those we have recently experienced or that our increased emphasis on growth in the luxury goods market will result in our brand names and products achieving a high degree of consumer acceptance in that market. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventory for some products and missed opportunities for other products. Implementation of our business strategy also involves the continued expansion of our network of Company-operated retail stores around the world. Over the next two years, our goal is to open and operate directly or through franchises a number of additional Samsonite Black Label retail locations in large-market, fashion oriented international shopping districts in cities such as New York, London and San Francisco, as well as a number of additional Samsonite stores in high-traffic street locations and/or shopping malls. Our ability to continue opening these new store locations depends upon, among other things, our ability to operate them at a profit, finance their opening and operations, secure them at reasonable rental rates and hire and train management and personnel to staff the stores. If we cannot address these challenges successfully, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rate we currently contemplate. 13 Part of our retail strategy relies upon our ability to lease quality locations at competitive prices. We may incur significant costs if our retail strategy fails and we are forced to close retail locations. We lease the majority of our Company-operated retail stores. We are planning to increase our network of Company-operated retail stores around the world. Accordingly, the success of this aspect of our strategy is in part dependent on our ability to secure affordable, long-term leases and to secure renewals of such leases. Additional Samsonite Black Label retail stores will be located in areas typically associated with the sale of luxury goods. Such properties are generally highly sought after, and we may face intense competition from other companies for these locations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase or lease desirable store locations or renew existing store leases on acceptable economic terms. In addition, we may be subject to potential financial risk associated with the cost of prematurely terminated leases. Failure of the Company-operated retail stores to grow revenues as expected may oblige management to close a store (or stores) and thereby terminate a lease agreement prior to its expiration. Premature termination of a lease agreement may cause us to incur asset write-downs for store lease acquisition costs, leasehold improvements, fixtures and fittings or inventory or incur a portion of the future lease costs after termination. In addition, it is possible that we may have to incur rental and other charges after closing such stores for undetermined periods up to the lease expiry date. We must be able to maintain effective distribution channels that serve our customers’ purchasing patterns, and satisfactory control of our wholesale and license distribution channels is critical. The retail market, particularly in the United States, is marked by rapid changes in distribution channels and customer purchasing patterns. Our products are sold through diverse distribution channels, from our Company-operated stores, through our website, and through retail locations of others, including department and specialty stores, national and mass merchant retailers, and warehouse clubs. Therefore, maintaining good relationships with superior distribution or joint venture partners and establishing new distribution channels to better serve our customers’ purchasing patterns is key to our continued success. Additionally, if distribution channel trends and purchasing preferences change and we are not positioned to take advantage of such changes, we could be excluded from important market segments and our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. To achieve the geographical breadth that we are targeting, in some countries we enter into joint ventures to run our business. There can be no assurance that such joint ventures will prove successful. We also rely on our ability to control our distribution networks and licensees to ensure that our products are sold in environments consistent with our brand image. Any action by any significant wholesale customer or licensee, such as presenting Samsonite products in a manner inconsistent with our preferred positioning, could be damaging to our brand image. If, due to regulatory, legal or other constraints, we are in any way unable to control our wholesale distribution networks and licensees, the Samsonite brand image, and therefore our results and profitability, may be adversely affected. Some of our product lines are manufactured under licensed trademarks and any failure to retain or renew such licenses on acceptable terms may have an adverse effect on our business. Our license agreement with Lacoste allows us to design, manufacture and market an extensive range of luggage, bags and leather goods under the Lacoste brand name. Products sold under the Lacoste brand name accounted for revenues of $47.4 million, or 5.0 percent of our revenues, in fiscal year 2006. The Lacoste license agreement requires us in each year to achieve increasing minimum net sales of Lacoste branded goods in the various territories in which we have agreed to sell such goods. If these minimum net sales are not achieved for two consecutive years in any particular territory, Lacoste has the right to terminate the license agreement with respect to that territory. Additionally, in fiscal year 2006, we entered into a license agreement with the Timberland Company, or Timberland, which allows us to design, 14 manufacture and market luggage, business and computer cases and backpacks under the Timberland brand name. The Timberland license agreement requires us in each year to achieve increasing minimum net sales of Timberland branded goods and to make increasing annual royalty payments to Timberland. If we do not achieve these minimum net sales targets or make these royalty payments in any year, Timberland has the right to terminate the license agreement or to refuse to renew the license agreement when it expires on December 31, 2011. We may not be successful in maintaining or renewing the Lacoste or Timberland licenses, or other licenses which are of commercial value to us, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The loss of the Lacoste or Timberland licenses could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Brand recognition and image are important to the success of companies in our industry. Our financial performance is influenced by the success of our brands, which, in turn, depends on factors such as product design, the distinct character of the products, the materials used to manufacture the products, the image of our stores, communication activities, including advertising, public relations and marketing, and general corporate profile. Additionally, our business strategy relies, in part, upon the successful carry-over of the Samsonite brand name to other product categories and the luxury goods market. Failure of the Samsonite brand name to carry-over to other products or the luxury goods market, or failure to maintain or increase the stature of our pre-existing brands or to successfully develop new brands could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to realize the cost-saving benefits associated with the use of overseas third party vendors, and our vendors may be unable to deliver products in a timely cost-effective manner or to meet our quality standards. A significant portion of our net sales is derived from products which are manufactured by third party vendors, a majority of which are located in Asia and Eastern Europe. A significant change in these countries’ economic policies could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in such countries. The implementation of higher tariffs, quotas or other restrictive trade policies by those countries to which these third party vendors export their products could negatively impact the cost-saving benefits of these outsourced operations overseas. These factors could adversely affect our ability to maintain or commence low-cost operations outside the United States and the European Union. Additionally, the violation of labor or other laws by any of our third party vendors, or the divergence of third party vendors’ labour practices from those generally accepted as ethical by us or others in the United States and the European Union, could damage our reputation and force us to find alternative manufacturing sources. These third party vendors are subject to many risks, including foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions and trade issues. These factors, among others, could influence the ability of these third party vendors to make or export our products cost-effectively or at all or to procure some of the materials used in these products. We depend upon the ability of these vendors to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity. Additionally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of raw materials or labor for these third party vendors, which they could pass along to us, resulting in higher costs and lower margins for our products, if we cannot pass these higher costs on to customers. If any of these factors were to render a particular country undesirable or impractical as a source of supply, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on these vendors and the lack of direct control over these operations could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, a vendor’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, demand 15 reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. We are dependent on our trademarks and patents, and our products are and may continue to be the subject of counterfeit reproduction. As a leading luggage manufacturer and retailer, we are dependent on our ability to protect and promote our trademarks, patents and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks are adequately supported by applications for registrations, existing registrations and other legal protections in our principal markets. We own approximately 110 U.S. patents and approximately 782 patents (i.e., patents of inventions, industrial design registrations and utility models) in selected foreign countries. In addition, we have approximately 323 patent applications pending worldwide. We pursue a policy of seeking patent protection where appropriate for inventions embodied in our products. The patents we hold provide barriers to competition in applicable portions of our business, primarily associated with hardside and hybrid luggage products. The loss of some or all of the protection of the patents could make it easier for other companies to enter our markets and compete against us by eroding our ability to differentiate our products. We cannot exclude the possibility that our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or that we may be unable to register our intellectual property rights or otherwise adequately protect them in some jurisdictions. In addition, there can be no assurance that other companies will not be able to design and build competing products in a manner that does not infringe our patents. Furthermore, the luggage retail market is subject to numerous instances of product counterfeiting and other trademark infringements. A significant presence of counterfeit products on the market can negatively impact both the sales and the brand image of a manufacturer. Although we devote substantial resources on a worldwide basis to the protection of our intellectual property rights including, when appropriate, taking legal action, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect the use of our intellectual property will be successful. The law and practice relating to the protection of intellectual property rights varies greatly from country to country and, as a result, our rights are more vulnerable in some jurisdictions than others. If any of our products are the subject of widespread counterfeit production or other similar trademark infringements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The luggage market is highly fragmented; we face competition from many smaller competitors. We compete with many domestic and international companies in our global markets. We compete based on brand name recognition, consumer advertising, product innovation, quality, differentiation of product features, customer service and price. The worldwide luggage market is highly fragmented, meaning that we have many competitors. Our products compete with other brands of products within their product category and with private label products sold by retailers, including some of our wholesale customers. We compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of luggage, accessories and other products for the limited space available for the display of these products to the consumer. Given the general availability of contract-manufactured products, barriers to entry into the manufacturing of softside luggage are relatively low and we face competition from many low-cost manufacturers of inexpensive, softside luggage products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively in the future in our markets. Failure to attract and retain key and qualified personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our future success depends, in large part, on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and design teams who execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of Marcello Bottoli, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executive officers and key employees who possess 16 extensive industry knowledge. We are a party to employment agreements with these executives which provide for compensation and other benefits. The agreements also provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. The loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from that loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur costs to replace key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing employees in a timely manner. As the business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level, sales and other employees. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. Certain corporate transactions require the approval of our major stockholders. Our three major stockholders and their affiliates control approximately 85% of our voting stock. Samsonite is a party to a July 31, 2003 Stockholders’ Agreement with the major stockholders and others relating to the ownership rights and corporate governance of Samsonite. Pursuant to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement, the major stockholders have agreed to take all actions in their power to elect nominees selected by the major stockholders to our board of directors in the future. As a result, eight of the nine members of our board of directors are nominees of the major stockholders. In addition, our ability to take certain actions, including amending our charter, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain corporate actions (including debt incurrences, stock issuances, acquisitions, asset sales and the like), is subject to the written consent of either all or two-thirds (depending on the action) of the major stockholders so long as the major stockholders collectively continue to hold 25% of our outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future, our major stockholders will exercise significant influence over our board of directors and business and operations. The level of ownership of the voting stock by the major stockholders may have the effect of making more difficult or of discouraging, absent the support of such major stockholders, a proxy contest, a merger involving Samsonite, a tender offer, an open market purchase program or purchases of Samsonite common stock that could give holders of such stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The business of our subsidiaries with international operations may be adversely affected by international business risks and fluctuations in currency exchange and translation rates. Approximately 63 percent of our net revenues for fiscal year 2006 were attributable to our European and other foreign operations, which include significant operations throughout Asia and Latin America, and approximately 37 percent of our net revenues for fiscal year 2006 were attributable to our U.S. sales. In addition to our U.S. and European distribution subsidiaries, we have wholly owned distribution subsidiaries in Canada, Latin America (Mexico, Colombia and Peru) and Asia (Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Japan, Taiwan and Malaysia). In March 2006, we purchased the minority partner interest in our Japanese joint venture and we now own 100 percent of our Japanese subsidiary. We have manufacturing subsidiaries in Belgium, Eastern Europe (Hungary and Slovakia) and Asia (India). We are also a partner in joint ventures in Latin America (Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay) and Asia (South Korea and India). Our operations may be affected by economic, political, social and governmental conditions in the countries where we have manufacturing facilities or where our products are sold. In addition, factors such as changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could be impacted by unfavourable exchange rates, new or additional currency or exchange controls, other restrictions being imposed on our operations, or expropriation. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to the euro and other currencies. We face foreign currency transaction risks. In fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006, 59.8 percent, 61.8 percent and 62.5 percent, respectively, of our 17 revenues were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we also face a currency translation risk to the extent that the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of our subsidiaries and joint ventures are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Most of those subsidiaries operates using the functional currency of the country in which it is located. During fiscal years 2004 and 2005, our results of operations were positively impacted by the strengthening of the euro and other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. While exchange rate fluctuations over the past several years have been to our benefit, future material fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a misstatement in our financial statements. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that, as of January 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting because of a material weakness in our internal controls over accounting for income taxes, including the calculation of deferred tax asset valuation allowances, which resulted in us having to restate our consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003. Because of the material weakness, management concluded that disclosure controls were not effective as of January 31, 2006. To remediate the material weakness in controls over our accounting for income taxes, we have engaged an independent registered public accounting firm (other than our auditors, KPMG LLP) to perform an analysis of our internal controls over accounting for and disclosure of income taxes and expect to implement recommendations that result from such analysis. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as our stock price. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with our implementation of SAP information management software. We are in the process of replacing all of our various business information systems worldwide with the SAP Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. The pilot implementation begins in June 2006, and we expect implementation of the entire system to be completed in the first quarter of 2008. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to our new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records and to report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources and impact our ability to manage our business and our results of operations. If interest rates rise, our operating results may decline due to higher borrowing costs. We have €100 million ($121.5 million at January 31, 2006) of senior floating rate notes outstanding, which bear an interest rate of Euribor plus 4.375 percent (6.848 percent at January 31, 2006). In addition, our senior revolving credit facility and the short-term credit lines that we use from time to time to finance our European operations are floating rate obligations. At January 31, 2006, we had borrowings under short-term credit lines of $9.4 million and no borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility. These amounts may vary from time to time throughout the year as our business needs fluctuate. If interest rates rise, our interest expense will increase and our results of operations will be adversely affected. 18 We have a leveraged capital structure which could adversely affect our financial health, our ability to service our indebtedness and to grow our business. As of January 31, 2006 we had total indebtedness of $307.2 million and a stockholders’ deficit of $51.2 million. Our substantial debt could have consequences to security holders, including: · it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations on our public debt securities; · it may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the cash flow available to us for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; · it may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development and general corporate purposes; · it may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in our industry; and · it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage to less-leveraged competitors. There can be no assurance that our cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for us to make payments on our indebtedness or meet our other obligations in the future. If our cash flow and other capital resources are insufficient, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, try to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure our debt, which among other things could potentially impair our growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any of those alternatives would be successful or allow us to meet our scheduled obligations in the future. We are subject to restrictive covenants imposed by our existing credit facility, by the indentures governing notes we have issued and by an agreement we are party to with Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. We completed a recapitalization to improve our capital structure on July 31, 2003. This recapitalization included, among other things, the entry by us into a $60 million revolving credit facility with General Electric Capital Corporation, or GE Capital, KBC Bank N.V. and certain other lenders. This credit facility contains customary financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, incur indebtedness, merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets, make certain sales of assets, make investments, make capital expenditures, create, incur or permit the existence of certain liens, and engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, it requires us to achieve and maintain certain financial ratios. Such covenants will affect our operating flexibility and may require us to seek the consent of the lenders to certain transactions that we may wish to carry out. The failure to comply with the covenants would result in a default and permit the lenders under our credit facility to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness issued thereunder. The indentures governing the terms of notes we have issued contain numerous financial and operating covenants that, among other things, limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain payments and investments, including dividend payments, incur additional indebtedness or repay indebtedness, repurchase or redeem our shares, create liens or other encumbrances, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, merge or consolidate with other entities or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. Agreements governing future indebtedness could also contain significant financial and operating restrictions. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in our indentures could result in an event of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the notes and acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. 19 We are party to an agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, pursuant to which we have granted to PBGC an equal and ratable lien in an amount of $17.3 million in the assets pledged as security under our credit facility referred to above. We have also agreed not to transfer any of our assets held in the United States to any of our subsidiaries or other businesses outside of the United States (other than in the ordinary course of business) for the term of the agreement. The indentures governing our senior and senior subordinated notes contain change of control provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover of us. The indentures governing our senior and senior subordinated notes provide that, upon a change of control (as defined in each of the indentures), we will be required to make an offer to purchase all outstanding notes at a price equal to 101 percent of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the purchase date. As at January 31, 2006, the principal amount outstanding under our senior and senior subordinated notes was $121.5 million and $174.9 million, respectively. The occurrence of certain of the events that would constitute a change of control would constitute a default under our credit facility and might constitute a default under our other indebtedness. In addition, our credit facility prohibits the purchase of the notes by us in the event of a change of control unless and until such time as the indebtedness under our credit facility is repaid in full. In the event of a change of control, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient assets to satisfy all of our obligations under our credit facility and the notes. We have significant underfunded and unfunded U.S. post-retirement obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Our U.S. defined benefit pension plan is significantly underfunded. As is typical, our U.S. retiree medical plans are unfunded. Pension contributions and payments under our retiree medical plans required to be made by us may decrease our available cash. In addition, accounting rule changes have been proposed that would, if adopted, have the effect of increasing the amount of the underfunding that we are required to take into account as a liability on our financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 20 