Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report could substantially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and that if any of these events occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of the value of your shares of our common stock. The cautionary statements made in this report are intended to be applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they may appear in this report. We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were originally incorporated in California in January 1992 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1996. We discover, develop and intend to commercialize drugs for the treatment of neurological and endocrine-related diseases and disorders. Our product candidates address some of the largest pharmaceutical markets in the world, including endometriosis, anxiety, depression, pain, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, insomnia, and other neurological and endocrine related diseases and disorders. We currently have eight programs in various stages of research and development, including five programs in clinical development. While we independently develop many of our product candidates, we have entered into a collaboration for two of our programs. 3 Table of Contents Our Product Pipeline The following table summarizes our most advanced product candidates currently in clinical development, those currently in research, and those subject to regulatory review, and is followed by detailed descriptions of each program: Program Target Indication Status Commercial Rights Products in clinical development: Elagolix Endometriosis Phase II Neurocrine CRF1 Antagonist (561679) Mood Disorders Phase II GlaxoSmithKline/ Neurocrine CRF2 Peptide Agonist — urocortin 2 Cardiovascular Phase II Neurocrine CRF1 Antagonist (586529) Mood Disorders, Irritable Bowel Syndrome Phase I GlaxoSmithKline/ Neurocrine Elagolix Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia, Uterine Fibroids Phase I Neurocrine Research programs: Vesicular Monoamine Transporter 2 Inhibitor (VMAT2) Movement Disorders, Schizophrenia Development Neurocrine Glucose Dependent Insulin Secretagogues Type II Diabetes Research Neurocrine Antiepileptic Drugs Epilepsy, Bipolar Disorder Research Neurocrine GnRH Antagonists Hormone Dependent Diseases, Oncology Research Neurocrine Products subject to regulatory review: Indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules Insomnia FDA has deemed approvable Neurocrine/Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Indiplon 15mg tablets Insomnia FDA has deemed not approvable Neurocrine “Phase II” indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting clinical trials on groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. “Phase I” indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting clinical trials with a smaller number of patients to determine early safety profile, maximally tolerated dose and pharmacological properties of the product in human volunteers. “Development” indicates a compound has been selected to move into clinical trials. “Research” indicates identification and evaluation of compound(s) in laboratory and preclinical models. “CRF1 and CRF2” refer to two CRF receptor subtypes. Products Under Clinical Development Elagolix — Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Antagonist Gonadotropin-releasing hormone, or GnRH, is a peptide that stimulates the secretion of the pituitary hormones that are responsible for sex steroid production and normal reproductive function. Researchers have found that chronic administration of GnRH agonists, after initial stimulation, reversibly shuts down this transmitter pathway 4 Table of Contents and is clinically useful in treating hormone-dependent diseases such as endometriosis, uterine fibroids and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Several companies have developed peptide GnRH agonists on this principle, such as Lupron® and Zoladex®, and according to their manufacturers, their annual worldwide sales in 2007 totaled $3 billion (EvaluatePharma). However, since they are peptides, they must be injected via a depot formulation rather than the preferred oral route of administration. In addition, GnRH agonists can take up to several weeks to exert their desired effect once the initial stimulation has occurred, a factor not seen with the use of GnRH antagonists. More importantly, until the desired effects are maximal, they have shown a tendency to exacerbate the condition via a hormonal flare. The ultimate profound suppression effect observed with GnRH agonists is similar to that seen after menopause and can be associated with hot flashes and the loss of bone mineral density. Orally active, nonpeptide GnRH antagonists potentially offer several advantages over injectable GnRH peptide drugs, including rapid onset of hormone suppression without a hormonal flare. Also, injection site reactions commonly observed in peptide depots are avoided and dosing can be rapidly discontinued if necessary — a clinical management option not available with long-acting depot injections. Importantly, by using GnRH antagonists, it may be possible to alter the level of pituitary GnRH suppression and thereby titrating circulating estrogen levels. Using this approach, an oral GnRH antagonist may provide patients relief from the painful symptoms of endometriosis while avoiding the need for the active management of bone loss. Endometriosis. Endometriosis is associated with a multitude of symptoms, some of the most common of which include pain related both to menstruation (dysmenorrhea) and sexual intercourse (dyspareunia) as well as chronic pelvic pain throughout the menstrual cycle, infertility, and menorrhagia, among many others. The wide range of symptoms associated with endometriosis serves to complicate and delay diagnosis due to the significant overlap of symptoms with the disease profiles of other conditions. Datamonitor (2007) estimates that there are approximately 7.5 million women in the United States who suffer from the symptoms of endometriosis. With annual healthcare costs and endometriosis-related productivity losses of approximately $4,000 per patient, the annual direct and indirect costs of endometriosis are estimated to exceed $20 billion in the United States alone (S Simoens et al Human Reproduction Update 2007, 13 395). We believe that the availability of an oral treatment, lacking the side effect profile of the currently available peptide GnRH agonists, may be a desirable alternative to current therapies and ultimately encourage a higher treatment rate. Several Phase I clinical trials of our lead, orally active nonpeptide GnRH antagonist, elagolix, for endometriosis have been completed. These studies demonstrated that elagolix was safe and well tolerated. Dose-dependent hormonal suppression with once a day elagolix was observed in doses ranging from 50mg and 400mg /day. The reduction in estradiol has been correlated with a reduction in pain and other symptoms of endometriosis and is a useful biomarker for safety and efficacy. Based on the results of these Phase I trials, we completed two separate exploratory three-month Phase IIa trials, during 2006, in endometriosis patients to assess efficacy and tolerability of elagolix. Efficacy in these Phase II studies was assessed by the Composite Pelvic Sign and Symptoms Score (CPSSS) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) industry-standard and validated measures utilized for evaluating pain reduction in endometriosis patients. In addition to the standard clinical and laboratory assessments of safety, a biomarker for bone resorption (n-telopeptide) was also measured to assess potential impact on bone mineral density. The first of the two randomized, placebo controlled Phase IIa three-month trials in patients with endometriosis involved doses of 75mg and 150mg elagolix given once daily. The second Phase IIa study involved doses of 50mg and 100mg elagolix given twice daily to more fully explore dose response. Taken together, these trials indicate that a reduction in pain associated with endometriosis, as measured by CPSSS and VAS, is possible with benefit occurring within the first two weeks for some women. The magnitude of pain reduction is roughly comparable to that seen with depo-subQ provera 104tm (DMPA-SC) and Lupron® although direct comparison to these treatments was not part of these Phase IIa trials. Average estradiol levels were reduced in a dose-related manner and, most importantly, do not fall into the post-menopausal range associated with GnRH agonist treatments. Furthermore, no increase in bone resorption was evident as shown by stable mean n-telopeptide levels. During 2007, we also completed a bridging study comparing elagolix drug formulations (tablets and solutions) we have used in clinical trials to date to new formulations of tablets. The successful completion of this study allowed us to select what we anticipate to be our final commercial formulation tablet. 5 Table of Contents During 2008, we completed the dosing and 6-month follow up of a Phase IIb study in which 252 patients, with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis, were treated over a 6-month period. This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy study consisted of three treatment groups, elagolix 150mg once a day, elagolix 75mg twice daily, and an active control, DMPA-SC. The primary purpose of this study was to assess the impact of six months of treatment of elagolix on bone mineral density as measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan at the conclusion of treatment and at 6 and 12 months post treatment. This study also assessed, as secondary endpoints, the impact of treatment on endometriosis symptoms as measured by CPSSS and VAS. Top-line results were released in September 2008 and showed that elagolix met the primary endpoint by having minimal impact on bone mineral density at the conclusion of treatment. This study also showed that elagolix had both a statistical and clinically meaningful reduction in endometriosis symptoms as measured by CPSSS with an 86% responder rate in the 150mg once daily elagolix arm of the study. This study confirmed our decision to move forward with once daily dosing as elagolix displayed approximately the same efficacy whether given once or twice daily and a superior safety profile for bone mineral density. Additional data from this study is expected to be released during 2009 which will include the DXA scans from both 6 and 12 months post treatment, and various pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses. We are conducting two additional Phase IIb studies of elagolix to fully explore its dose range, to evaluate modified endpoints proposed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and to evaluate elagolix in a comparator trial with a monthly injection of leuprolide (Prostap® SR). Both of these trials are utilizing our selected commercial formulation tablet for six months of treatment. These two trials are designed to assess elagolix against placebo (and Prostap® SR) for an initial three months and after completing three months of treatment the non- elagolix treatment arms are re-randomized into either 150mg or 250mg of elagolix once daily for an additional three months. The first additional Phase IIb trial was fully enrolled as of December 31, 2008 and consists of three arms, elagolix 150mg once daily, elagolix 250mg once daily, and placebo. We randomized 155 subjects with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis in this trial. The initial three month treatment period for this trial concluded in December 2008 and we expect top-line results in the first quarter of 2009. The second additional Phase IIb trial is currently enrolling in Central Eastern Europe and consists of four arms, elagolix 150mg once daily, elagolix 250mg once daily, Prostap® SR 3.75mg, and placebo. We expect to enroll approximately 180 subjects, with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis, in this trial. Top-line data from the initial three month treatment period is expected in the third quarter of 2009. We expect to have an end of Phase II meeting with the FDA in late 2009, the purpose of which would be to agree with the FDA on the design of the pivotal Phase III program for elagolix in endometriosis. We expect elagolix Phase III clinical trials to commence in early 2010. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia. BPH is defined by the enlargement of the prostate gland. In BPH, as the prostate grows larger and presses against the urethra, normal flow of urine is hindered. Researchers have determined that dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a derivative of testosterone, contributes to prostate enlargement. Equally important, men who do not generate DHT do not develop BPH. Accordingly, by using a small molecule GnRH antagonist, one can suppress the production of testosterone, and indirectly DHT, and potentially ameliorate the symptoms of BPH. More recent clinical and pre-clinical data indicate that transient suppression of testosterone may trigger a decrease in the size of the prostate and thereby permit intermittent treatment with a drug such as elagolix without untoward side effects. Moderate to severe BPH affects an estimated 20 million men in the United States (UroToday). Additionally, more than 50% of all men over the age of 50 suffer from the symptoms of BPH (The National Institute of Diabetes & Kidney Diseases). Worldwide sales of current treatments for BPH exceeded $4 billion in 2007 (EvaluatePharma). During 2004, we conducted a Phase I single dose study to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of our GnRH antagonist in healthy males. The results of this trial demonstrated that our GnRH antagonist effectively reduced testosterone production when compared to placebo. In 2005, we filed an Investigational New Drug application to initiate a multiple dose Phase I study in males. A second study was completed in 2006 and those results demonstrate that a dose-related reduction of testosterone was achieved and that two weeks of GnRH antagonist treatment is generally safe and well tolerated in healthy males. 6 Table of Contents Corticotropin-Releasing Factor (CRF) Receptor1 Antagonist According to Datamonitor (2007), the prevalence of major depressive disorder exceeds 20 million in the United States alone with an estimated 121 million sufferers worldwide. Estimates based on data from the National Institute of Mental Health and the U.S. Census Bureau, Population Division also indicate that in 2007 over 20 million Americans suffer from a debilitating anxiety disorder. In 2007, the worldwide branded market for depression therapeutics was nearly $11 billion (Med Ad News). Depression. Depression is one of a group of neuropsychiatric disorders that is characterized by extreme feelings of despair, loss of body weight, decreased aggressiveness and sexual behavior, and loss of sleep. Researchers believe that depression results from a combination of environmental factors, including stress, as well as an individual’s biochemical vulnerability, which is genetically predetermined. The most frequently prescribed antidepressant therapies are drugs that inhibit the reuptake of the neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine and include drugs such as Zoloft®, Paxil®, Lexapro®, Prozac®, Cymbalta®, Pristiq®, Wellbutrin® and Effexor® as well as certain generic equivalents. These compounds act by inhibiting the reuptake of neurotransmitters back into presynaptic neurons thus effectively increasing their levels and enhancing activity in the brain. However, because these drugs affect a wide range of neurotransmitters, they have been associated with a number of adverse side effects. While newer, more selective drugs offer some safety improvement, side effects remain problematic. Two of the biggest limitations of most existing antidepressant therapies are their slow onset of action and their negative effects on libido. Anxiety. Anxiety is among the most commonly observed group of central nervous system disorders, which includes phobias or irrational fears, panic attacks, and other syndromes. Of the pharmaceutical agents that other companies currently market for the treatment of anxiety disorders, benzodiazepines, such as Valium® and Xanax® and the anxiolytics BuSpar® and Effexor® as well as certain generic equivalents are the most frequently prescribed. Several side effects, however, limit the utility of these anti-anxiety drugs. Most problematic among these are drowsiness, memory difficulties, drug dependency and withdrawal reactions following the termination of therapy. Researchers have identified what they believe to be the central mediator of the body’s stress responses or stress-induced disorders (including depression and anxiety). This mediator is a brain chemical known as corticotropin-releasing factor, or CRF. CRF is overproduced in clinically depressed patients and may be dysregulated in individuals with anxiety disorders. Current research indicates that clinically depressed patients and patients with anxiety experience dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, the system that manages the body’s overall response to stress. This amplifies production of CRF, and induces the physical effects that are associated with stress that can lead to depression or anxiety. The novelty and specificity of the CRF mechanism of action and the prospect of improving upon selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor therapy represents a market opportunity both to better serve patients and expand the overall treatment of depression. We also believe that CRF offers a novel mechanism of action and the advantage of being more selective, thereby providing increased efficacy with reduced side effects in anxiety when compared to benzodiazepines. We have a strategic position in the CRF field through our intellectual property portfolio and relationship with experts in the neuropsychiatric field. We have further characterized the CRF receptor system and have identified additional members of the CRF receptor family. We have patent rights on two receptor subtypes termed CRF1 and CRF2, and we have pending patent applications on small molecule organic compounds modulating the CRF receptors. The first clinical trial to offer evidence of proof of concept of CRF antagonists in addressing depression (and anxiety as a co-examined variable) was a Phase IIa open label trial we conducted in 1999 pursuant to collaborations with Janssen Pharmaceutica (Janssen) in the field of CRF antagonists. Results from this trial indicated that the drug candidate was safe and well tolerated and demonstrated anti-depressant activity as measured by a widely-accepted depression scale known as the Hamilton Depression Scale. In this trial, the drug candidate was administered to 20 patients with major depressive disorder. Results from the trial, as reported in the Journal of Psychiatric Research, showed that treatment response, as defined by more than a 50% reduction in Hamilton Depression Scores, occurred in 50% of the patients in the low dose group and 80% of the patients in the higher dose group. Additionally, the drug candidate demonstrated a reduction in Hamilton Anxiety Scores from baseline in both treatment groups at all times after dosing. While development of our first generation CRF antagonist was discontinued for safety reasons by our 7 Table of Contents collaborator Janssen, we were encouraged by these results which we believe support the hypothesized mechanism of action. Our CRF antagonist research collaboration with Janssen was terminated in March 2002. In July 2001, we announced our second CRF antagonist collaboration, a worldwide collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), to develop and commercialize CRF antagonists for psychiatric, neurological and gastrointestinal diseases. Under the terms of this agreement, GSK sponsored and we jointly conducted a research program and collaborated in the development of our current lead compounds, as well as novel back-up candidates and second generation compounds identified through the collaborative research. The sponsored research portion of the collaboration was completed in 2005. During 2004, GSK advanced one of the lead CRF1 drug candidates arising out of our collaboration into Phase I clinical trials. The trial was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose study to evaluate safety and pharmacokinetics of a range of escalating doses. This study was followed by the successful completion of a placebo-controlled double blind multiple dose Phase I study. GSK has completed a Phase II clinical trial with CRF1 receptor antagonist compound, 876008, for social anxiety disorder (SocAD). In this double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled, multiple dose study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the CRF1 receptor antagonist compound in patients with SocAD, no statistically significant differences were observed in the key efficacy endpoints between 876008 and placebo at 12 weeks. This study included more than 200 adult subjects and assessed efficacy, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the compound. The compound was generally well tolerated with no serious adverse events reported. GSK has advanced a second lead CRF1 receptor antagonist compound, 561679, into a Phase II depression study during 2008. This multicenter randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of 561679 in approximately 150 subjects with Major Depressive Disorder. Results are expected in 2010. GSK has also completed a successful Phase I single dose escalating clinical trial with 586529, an additional CRF1 receptor antagonist compound. Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Research has also suggested that CRF plays a role in the control or modulation of the gastrointestinal system. Studies have demonstrated that central administration of CRF acts to inhibit emptying of the stomach while stimulating bowel activity, and suggest that overproduction of CRF in the brain may be a main contributor to stress-related gastrointestinal disorders. IBS is a gastrointestinal inflammatory disease that affects between 25 to 45 million people in the United States, accounting for over $20 billion in direct and indirect costs each year, according to the International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders. IBS can be a lifelong, intermittent disease, involving chronic or recurrent abdominal pain and frequent diarrhea or constipation. Some patients with IBS report the onset of symptoms of the disease following a major life stress event, such as death in the family, which suggests that the causes of IBS may be related to stress. In addition, most IBS sufferers also experience anxiety and depression. GSK has completed a Phase II clinical trial assessing the CRF1 receptor antagonist compound 876008 in IBS. In this double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 876008 in patients with IBS, no statistically significant differences were observed in the key efficacy endpoints between 876008 and placebo. Approximately 130 patients meeting established diagnostic criteria for IBS were entered into this cross-over design trial. CRF2 Receptor Peptide Agonist (Urocortin 2) Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a condition where the heart cannot pump enough blood to supply all of the body’s organs. It is a result of narrowing of the arteries combined with high blood pressure, which results in increased respiration as well as edema from water retention. In the case of acute symptomology, CHF patients will eventually experience a rapid deterioration and require urgent treatment in the hospital. According to 2008 data from the American Heart Association, over 5 million people experience CHF and about 660,000 new cases are diagnosed each year in the United States. CHF becomes more prevalent with age and the number of cases is expected to grow as the overall age of the population increases. Current treatment options include a cocktail of drugs 8 Table of Contents consisting of diuretics to remove excess water, beta blockers and digitalis to improve heart muscle contraction, and/or ACE inhibitors and vasodilators to expand blood vessels. There are in excess of one million hospitalizations each year in the United States for CHF (AMA 2009). Urocortin 2 is an endogenous peptide ligand of the CRF2 receptor present in the cardiovascular system, notably the heart and cerebral arterial system. Urocortin 2 plays a role in the control of the hormonal, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and behavioral responses to stress, and has an array of effects on the cardiovascular system and metabolism. Based on preclinical efficacy and safety data, together with its known role in human physiology, we believe that urocortin 2 may have positive hemodynamic effects on cardiac output and blood pressure which may benefit patients with acute CHF. During 2005, we completed a Phase II placebo controlled dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of two dose levels of urocortin 2 in patients with stable CHF. Results of this study demonstrated a dose-related increase in cardiac output of up to 50% with only a modest increase (6%) in heart rate. We completed an additional Phase II study evaluating urocortin 2 over four-hour infusions in patients with stable CHF in the first half of 2006. The treatments were generally well tolerated without serious adverse events, abnormalities in electrocardiograms or significant changes in renal function. Positive hemodynamic effects were noted in virtually all patients with increases in cardiac output ranging from 6% to 54%. During 2008, we completed the necessary preclinical work to allow for periods of infusion of urocortin 2 up to 14 days. This substantially completes all of the preclinical toxicology work required by the FDA. Further development of urocortin 2 for CHF and other acute care cardiovascular diseases is highly dependent upon partnering of this program. Research Programs Our research and development focus is on addressing diseases and disorders of the central nervous system and endocrine system, which include therapeutic categories ranging from diabetes to stress-related disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. Central nervous system and endocrinology drug therapies are among the largest therapeutic categories, accounting for over $60 billion in worldwide drug sales in 2007 according to Med Ad News. Vesicular Monoamine Transporter 2 Inhibitor (VMAT2) VMAT2 is a protein concentrated in the human brain that is essential for the transmission of nerve impulses between neurons. VMAT2 is primarily responsible for re-packaging and transporting monamines (dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and histamine) among nerve cells. Specifically, dopamine enables neurotransmission among nerve cells that are involved in voluntary and involuntary motor control. We have identified one highly selective VMAT2 inhibitor that is effective in regulating the levels of dopamine release during nerve communication, while at the same time having minimal impact on the other monoamines thereby reducing the likelihood of “off target” side effects. We have developed this novel compound to provide very predictable plasma and brain concentrations and therefore allow for exposure that we expect to be well tolerated in patients. We believe that this clinical candidate will be effective in the management of hyperkinetic movement disorders characterized by involuntary bodily movements as seen in patients suffering from Tardive Dyskinesia, and Huntington’s disease. Additionally, the modulation of dopamine pathways may also be useful for patients suffering from schizophrenia, one population at risk for Tardive Dyskinesia. We anticipate moving this compound into Phase I clinical trials in 2009. Glucose Dependent Insulin Secretagogues Type II diabetes affects more than 23 million Americans (Datamonitor 2007), and is growing at epidemic proportions world-wide. The disease is characterized by reduced ability to secrete and respond to insulin. Drugs which can enhance the secretion of insulin in response to rising blood glucose levels can improve blood glucose 9 Table of Contents control without increased risk of hypoglycemia. Our scientists are optimizing small molecule compounds that act in this way in order to discover novel oral therapies for glucose control in diabetes. Antiepileptic Drugs Anticonvulsants are utilized in the treatment of epileptic seizures by suppressing the rapid firing of neurons that initiate a seizure. Anticonvulsants also have a mood stabilizing effect that has proved beneficial in bipolar disease. In 2007 anticonvulsants sold approximately $11 billion worldwide (EvaluatePharma, MedAd News). GnRH Antagonists As previously mentioned, GnRH antagonists may be useful in treating certain hormone dependent diseases. Our discovery work in nonpeptide GnRH antagonists continues to focus on endometriosis, uterine fibroids, benign prostatic hyperplasia and oncology indications as we continue to develop additional candidates for preclinical and clinical trials. Programs Subject to Regulatory Review Indiplon Indiplon is a non-benzodiazepine GABAA receptor agonist for the treatment of insomnia which acts via the same mechanism as the currently marketed non-benzodiazepine therapeutics. We obtained the rights to indiplon through an exclusive worldwide sublicense agreement that we entered into with DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc. (DOV) in June 1998. Based on the results of preclinical studies and Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials on indiplon, as well as a non-clinical data package related to indiplon manufacturing, formulation and commercial product development, we assembled and filed NDAs with the FDA for both indiplon capsules and indiplon tablets. On May 15, 2006, we received two complete responses from the FDA regarding our indiplon capsule and tablet NDAs. These responses indicated that indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules were approvable (2006 FDA Approvable Letter) and that the 15mg tablets were not approvable (FDA Not Approvable Letter). The FDA Not Approvable Letter for the tablets requested that we reanalyze certain safety and efficacy data and questioned the sufficiency of the objective sleep maintenance clinical data with the 15mg tablet in view of the fact that the majority of our indiplon tablet studies were conducted with doses higher than 15mg. We held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Not Approvable Letter in October 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon tablets from Not Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon tablets. The FDA has requested additional long-term safety and efficacy data with the 15mg dose for the adult population and the development of a separate dose for the elderly population. The 2006 FDA Approvable Letter requested that we reanalyze data from certain preclinical and clinical studies to support approval of indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules for sleep initiation and middle of the night dosing. The 2006 FDA Approvable Letter also requested reexamination of the safety analyses. We held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the 2006 FDA Approvable Letter in August 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon capsules from Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon capsules. At the meeting, the FDA requested that the resubmission include further analyses and modifications of analyses previously submitted to address questions raised by the FDA in the initial review. This reanalysis was completed. The FDA also requested, and we completed, a supplemental pharmacokinetic/food effect profile of indiplon capsules including several meal types. On June 12, 2007, we resubmitted our NDA for indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules seeking clearance to market indiplon capsules for the treatment of insomnia. The FDA accepted the NDA resubmission and established a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date of December 12, 2007. On December 12, 2007 we received an action letter from the FDA stating the indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules are approvable (2007 FDA Approvable Letter). The 2007 FDA Approvable Letter acknowledged that the resubmitted NDA had addressed the issues raised in the 2006 FDA Approvable Letter, but set forth new requirements. The new requirements set forth in the 2007 FDA 10 Table of Contents Approvable Letter are the following: (i) an objective/subjective clinical trial in the elderly, (ii) a safety study assessing the rates of adverse events occurring with indiplon when compared to a marketed product, and (iii) a preclinical study to evaluate indiplon administration during the third trimester of pregnancy. In July 2008 we held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA to discuss the 2007 FDA Approvable Letter. We are currently awaiting the final minutes of this meeting. After receipt of the 2007 FDA Approvable Letter, we ceased all indiplon clinical development activities in the United States as well as all pre-commercialization activities. Our Business Strategy Our goal is to become the leading biopharmaceutical company focused on neurological and endocrine-related diseases and disorders. The following are the key elements of our business strategy: Continuing to Advance and Build Our Product Portfolio Focused on Neurological and Endocrine-Related Diseases and Disorders. We believe that by continuing to advance and build our product pipeline, we can mitigate some of the clinical development risks associated with drug development. We currently have eight programs in various stages of research and development, including five programs in clinical development. We take a portfolio approach to managing our pipeline that balances the size of the market opportunities with clear and defined clinical and regulatory paths to approval. We do this to ensure that we focus our internal development resources on innovative therapies with improved probabilities of technical and commercial success. Identifying Novel Drug Targets to Address Unmet Market Opportunities. We seek to identify and validate novel drug targets for internal development or collaboration. For example, the novel drug candidates we have identified to regulate CRF, which is believed to be the central mediator of the body’s stress response, may represent the first new breakthrough for anxiety and depression in over 25 years. GnRH antagonists, compounds designed to reduce the secretions of sex steroids, may represent the first novel non-peptide, non-injectible means of treatment of endometriosis. The creativity and productivity of our discovery research group will continue to be a critical component for our continued success. Our team has a goal of delivering one innovative clinical compound each year to fuel our research and development pipeline. Research and development costs were $55.3 million, $82.0 million, and $97.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Selectively Establishing Corporate Collaborations with Global Pharmaceutical Companies to Assist in the Development of Our Products and Mitigate Financial Risk while Retaining Significant Commercial Upside. We leverage the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our corporate collaborators to accelerate the development of certain of our potential products, while typically retaining co-promotional rights, and at times commercial rights, in North America. We intend to further leverage our resources by selectively entering into additional strategic alliances to enhance our internal development and commercialization capabilities by licensing our technology. Acquiring Rights to Complementary Drug Candidates and Technologies. We plan to continue to selectively acquire rights to products in various stages of development to take advantage of our drug development capabilities. For example, during 2003, we licensed our urocortin 2 product candidate from the Research Development Foundation. Our Corporate Collaborations and Strategic Alliances One of our business strategies is to utilize strategic alliances to enhance our development and commercialization capabilities. The following is a summary of our significant collaborations/alliances: GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). In July 2001, we announced a worldwide collaboration with an affiliate of GSK to develop and commercialize CRF antagonists for psychiatric, neurological and gastrointestinal diseases. Under the terms of this agreement, we and GSK will conduct a collaborative research program and collaborate in the development of our current lead compounds, as well as novel back-up candidates and second generation compounds identified through the collaborative research. In addition, we will be eligible to receive milestone payments as compounds progress through the research and development process, royalties on future product sales and co-promotion rights in the U.S. in some circumstances. GSK may terminate the agreement at its discretion upon 90 days prior written notice to us. In such event, we may be entitled to specified payments and all product rights 11 Table of Contents would revert to us. As of December 31, 2008, we had recorded revenues of $4.5 million in license fees, $29.8 million in milestone payments, $19.5 million in sponsored research and $1.4 million in reimbursement of development costs, over the life of the agreement. The sponsored research portion of this collaboration agreement concluded in 2005. Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd. (DSP). In October 2007, we announced an exclusive license agreement with DSP to develop and commercialize indiplon in Japan. Under the terms of the agreement DSP made an up-front payment to us of $20.0 million and is responsible for all future development, marketing and commercialization costs of indiplon in Japan. We will be eligible to receive additional milestone payments upon specified future events related to the development and commercialization of indiplon in Japan. Should all milestones be achieved, we may be entitled to additional payments totaling up to $115.0 million. We are also entitled to royalties from DSP on future sales of indiplon in Japan. As of December 31, 2008, we had recorded revenue of $3.4 million in license fees from DSP over the life of the agreement. Intellectual Property We seek to protect our lead compounds, compound libraries, expressed proteins, synthetic organic processes, formulations, assays, cloned targets, screening technology and other technologies by filing, or by causing to be filed on our behalf, patent applications in the United States and abroad. These applications have resulted in the issuance of approximately 73 United States patents. Additionally, we have licensed from institutions such as The Salk Institute, DOV, Research Development Foundation and others the rights to issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, and issued and pending foreign filings. We face the risk that one or more of the above patent applications may be denied. We also face the risk that issued patents that we own or license may be challenged or circumvented or may otherwise not provide protection for any commercially viable products we develop. The technologies we use in our research, as well as the drug targets we select, may infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. If this occurs, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue with the commercialization of our products. In addition to the granted and potential patent protection, the United States, the European Union and Japan all provide data protection for new medicinal compounds. If this protection is available, no competitor may use the original applicant’s data as the basis of a generic marketing application during the period of data protection. This period of exclusivity is five years in the United States, six years in Japan and six to ten years in the European Union, measured from the date of FDA, or corresponding foreign, approval. Manufacturing and Distribution We currently rely on, and will continue to rely on, contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our preclinical and anticipated clinical trials. In addition, we intend to rely on third parties to manufacture any products that we may commercialize in the future. We have established an internal pharmaceutical development group to develop manufacturing methods for our product candidates, to optimize manufacturing processes, and to select and transfer these manufacturing technologies to our suppliers. We continue to contract with multiple manufacturers to ensure adequate product supply and to mitigate risk. There currently are a limited number of these manufacturers. Furthermore, some of the contract manufacturers that we have identified to date only have limited experience at manufacturing, formulating, analyzing and packaging our product candidates in quantities sufficient for conducting clinical trials or for commercialization. We currently have no distribution capabilities. In order to independently commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either internally develop distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Marketing and Sales We currently have limited experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products. Under our collaboration agreement with GSK we may have the opportunity to co-promote any products resulting from the 12 Table of Contents collaboration in the United States. To market any of our other products independently would require us to develop a sales force with technical expertise along with establishing commercial infrastructure and capabilities. Government Regulation Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All of our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. Various federal and state statutes and regulations also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage and record-keeping related to such products and their marketing. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Preclinical studies generally are conducted in laboratory animals to evaluate the potential safety and the efficacy of a product. Drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies to the FDA as a part of an IND application that must be approved before clinical trials can begin in humans. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a time consuming and costly three-phase process. Phase I Clinical trials are conducted with a small number of patients to determine the early safety profile, maximum tolerated dose and pharmacological properties of the product in human volunteers. Phase II Clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. Phase III Large-scale, multi-center, comparative clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine safety and efficacy as primary support for regulatory approval by the FDA to market a product candidate for a specific disease. The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the United States and may, at its discretion, reevaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the patient. To date, we have also conducted some of our clinical trials in Europe, Oceania, and South Africa. Clinical trials conducted in foreign countries may also be subject to oversight by regulatory authorities in those countries. Once Phase III trials are completed, drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA in the form of an NDA or a biologics licensing application for approval to commence commercial sales. In response, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if the FDA determines that the application does not meet regulatory approval criteria. FDA approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA may prevent a drug developer from marketing a product under a label for its desired indications, which may impair commercialization of the product. If the FDA approves the NDA, the drug becomes available for physicians to prescribe in the United States. After approval, the drug developer must submit periodic reports to the FDA, including descriptions of any adverse reactions reported. The FDA may request additional studies, known as Phase IV, to evaluate long-term effects. The FDA may also require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) safety plan upon approval. In addition to studies requested by the FDA after approval, a drug developer may conduct other trials and studies to explore use of the approved compound for treatment of new indications. The purpose of these trials and studies and related publications is to broaden the application and use of the drug and its acceptance in the medical community. We will also have to complete an approval process similar to that in the United States in virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to commercialize our product candidates in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the United States. The resulting prices may not be sufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our corporate collaborators. 13 Table of Contents Competition The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of our product candidates from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research institutions, government agencies and academic institutions. Competition may also arise from, among other things: • other drug development technologies; • methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and • new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including endometriosis, anxiety, depression, pain, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, insomnia, and other neurological and endocrine related diseases and disorders. Lupron Depot®, marketed by TAP Pharmaceuticals, and Synarel® and Depo-Provera®, marketed by Pfizer, are gonadotropin-releasing hormone peptide agonists that have been approved for the treatment of endometriosis, infertility, and central precocious puberty. Additionally, Proscar®, an enzyme inhibitor marketed by Merck, and Flomax®, an alpha blocker marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, are both used in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. These drugs may compete with any small molecule gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonists we develop for these indications. Potential indications for our small molecule CRF antagonists include anxiety disorders, depression, and irritable bowel syndrome, among others, our drug candidates will be commercialized in well-established markets. In the area of anxiety disorders, our product candidates will compete with products such as Valium®, marketed by Hoffman-La Roche, Xanax®, marketed by Pfizer, BuSpar®, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, Zoloft®, marketed by Pfizer, Wellbutrin®, marketed by GSK and Effexor®, marketed by Wyeth, among others, as well as any generic alternatives for each of these products. In the area of depression, our product candidates will compete with products in the antidepressant class, including Prozac® and Cymbalta®, marketed by Eli Lilly, Zoloft®, marketed by Pfizer, Paxil®, marketed by GSK, Effexor®, marketed by Wyeth, and Lexapro®, marketed by Forest Laboratories, among others. In the area of irritable bowel syndrome, our product candidates will compete with such products as Lotronex® marketed by Prometheus Laboratories Inc. in the United States. Some technologies under development by other pharmaceutical companies could result in additional commercial treatments for depression and anxiety. In addition, a number of companies also are conducting research on molecules to block CRF, which is the same mechanism of action employed by our compounds. In the area of insomnia, Ambien®, Sonata®, Lunesta®, and Rozerem® are currently marketed by Sanofi-Aventis, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sepracor, Inc., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, respectively. During 2006, Sanofi-Aventis launched a controlled-release formulation of Ambien® called Ambien CR® and during 2007, generic Ambien® or zolpidem also entered the insomnia market. Somaxon Pharmaceuticals is developing Silenor®, a H1 antagonist, for the treatment of insomnia, which has completed Phase III clinical trials and for which the PDUFA date is in February 2009. In the area of schizophrenia, our product candidates will compete with such products as Geodon®, marketed by Pfizer, Zyprexa®, marketed by Eli Lilly, Risperdal®, marketed by Janssen, and Seroquel®, marketed by AstraZeneca, among others. If one or more of these products or programs are successful, it may reduce or eliminate the market for our products. 14 Table of Contents Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical testing experience; • manufacturing and marketing experience; and • production facilities. Any of these competitive factors could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, which could negatively affect our stock price. Employees As of January 31, 2009, we had approximately 125 employees, of which 38 hold Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining arrangement, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists. In addition, we rely on a number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategies. Insurance We maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for products in development. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. In addition, we may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at www.neurocrine.com, when such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.sec.gov. Additionally, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be harmed. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Company We depend on continuing our current collaborations and developing additional collaborations to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our strategy for fully developing and commercializing our products is dependent upon maintaining our current arrangements and establishing new arrangements with research collaborators, corporate collaborators and others, particularly as it relates to our GnRH and urocortin 2 programs. We have active collaboration agreements with GlaxoSmithKline and Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd. and previously have had collaborations with Pfizer, 15 Table of Contents Wyeth, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Taisho and Eli Lilly and Company. We historically have been dependent upon these corporate collaborators to provide adequate funding for a number of our programs. Under these arrangements, our corporate collaborators are typically responsible for: • selecting compounds for subsequent development as drug candidates; • conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining required regulatory approvals for these drug candidates; and • manufacturing and commercializing any resulting drugs. Because we expect to continue to rely heavily on corporate collaborators, the development and commercialization of our programs would be substantially delayed if one or more of our current or future collaborators: • failed to select a compound that we have discovered for subsequent development into marketable products; • failed to gain the requisite regulatory approvals of these products; • did not successfully commercialize products that we originate; • did not conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner; • did not devote sufficient time and resources to our partnered programs or potential products; • terminated its alliance with us; • developed, either alone or with others, products that may compete with our products; • disputed our respective allocations of rights to any products or technology developed during our collaborations; or • merged with a third party that wants to terminate the collaboration. These issues and possible disagreements with current or future corporate collaborators could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of many of our product candidates. Furthermore, disagreements with these parties could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If any of these issues arise, it may delay the development and commercialization of drug candidates and, ultimately, our generation of product revenues. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any of our potential products, we must subject these product candidates to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and may take years to complete. In connection with the clinical trials of our product candidates, we face the risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be effective; • we may discover that a product candidate may cause harmful side effects; • the results may not replicate the results of earlier, smaller trials; • we or the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may suspend the trials; • the results may not be statistically significant; • patient recruitment may be slower than expected; • patients may drop out of the trials; and • regulatory requirements may change. 16 Table of Contents For example, there is uncertainty regarding future development of indiplon as described below under the risk factor entitled “There is uncertainty regarding future development of our product candidate, indiplon, and we may not be able to meet the requirements to receive regulatory approvals for it.” In addition, late stage clinical trials are often conducted with patients having the most advanced stages of disease. During the course of treatment, these patients can die or suffer other adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agent being tested but which can nevertheless adversely affect clinical trial results. Any failure or substantial delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates may severely harm our business. If we cannot raise additional funding, we may be unable to complete development of our product candidates. We may require additional funding to continue our research and product development programs, to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials, for operating expenses and to pursue regulatory approvals for product candidates, for the costs involved in filing and prosecuting patent application and enforcing or defending patent claims, if any, as well as costs associated with litigation matters, product in-licensing and any possible acquisitions, and we may require additional funding to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities in the future. We believe that our existing capital resources, together with investment income, and future payments due under our strategic alliances, will be sufficient to satisfy our current and projected funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, these resources might be insufficient to conduct research and development programs as planned. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may be required to curtail significantly one or more of our research and development programs or obtain funds through additional arrangements with corporate collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude of our research and development programs; • progress with preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in filing and pursuing patent applications and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • the establishment of additional strategic alliances; • the cost of commercialization activities and arrangements, including manufacturing of our product candidates; and • the cost of product in-licensing and any possible acquisitions. We intend to seek additional funding through strategic alliances, and may seek additional funding through public or private sales of our securities, including equity securities. For example, we have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission which allows us to issue shares of our common stock from time to time for an aggregate initial offering price of up to $150 million. In addition, we have previously financed capital purchases and may continue to pursue opportunities to obtain additional debt financing in the future. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These events have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. Accordingly, additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Any additional equity financings will be dilutive to our stockholders and any additional debt financings may involve operating covenants that restrict our business. 17 Table of Contents Our restructuring activities could result in management distractions, operational disruptions and other difficulties. As a result of the uncertainty in the future development of indiplon capsules and tablets, we initiated restructuring activities in an effort to reduce operating costs, including a work force reduction announced in December 2007. Employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with this reduction may seek future employment with our competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. We also entered into a December 2008 amendment to our facilities lease, under which our landlord will seek to enter into leases with replacement tenants for portions of the front building of our corporate headquarters, thereby reducing our rent under the lease. Our landlord may not be successful in entering into leases with replacement tenants on favorable terms, or at all. Any additional restructuring efforts could divert the attention of our management away from our operations, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot assure you that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that any of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or future restructuring plans. In addition, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to any new growth opportunities. There is uncertainty regarding future development of our product candidate, indiplon, and we may not be able to meet the requirements to receive regulatory approvals for it. On December 12, 2007 we received an action letter from the FDA stating that indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules are approvable (2007 FDA Approvable Letter). The 2007 FDA Approvable Letter acknowledged that our resubmitted NDA for indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules had addressed the issues raised in a previous approvable letter, but set forth new requirements. The new requirements set forth in the 2007 FDA Approvable Letter are the following: (i) an objective/subjective clinical trial in the elderly, (ii) a safety study assessing the rates of adverse events occurring with indiplon when compared to a marketed product and (iii) a preclinical study to evaluate indiplon administration during the third trimester of pregnancy. After receipt of the 2007 FDA Approvable Letter, we ceased all indiplon clinical development activities in the United States as well as all pre-commercialization activities. We met with the FDA in July 2008 to discuss the 2007 FDA Approvable Letter and we are awaiting the finalization of the written minutes of this meeting from the FDA. The process of preparing and resubmitting the NDA for indiplon would require significant resources and could be time consuming and subject to unanticipated delays and cost. As a result of the 2007 FDA Approvable Letter, there is a significant amount of uncertainty regarding the future development of indiplon. Should the NDA be refiled, the FDA could again refuse to approve the NDA, or could still require additional data analysis or clinical trials, which would require substantial expenditures by us and would further delay the approval process. Even if our indiplon NDA is approved, the FDA may determine that our data do not support elements of the labeling we have requested. In such a case, the labeling actually granted by the FDA could limit the commercial success of the product. The FDA could also require Phase IV, or post-marketing, trials to study the long-term effects of indiplon and could withdraw its approval based on the results of those trials. The FDA could require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program for indiplon that could limit the commercial success of the product. We face the risk that for any of the reasons described above, as well as other reasons set forth herein, indiplon may never be approved by the FDA or commercialized anywhere in the world. If we determine that it is impractical or we are unable to refile the NDA, or the FDA refuses to accept or approve the resubmitted NDA for any reason or we experience a further delay in approval and subsequent commercialization of indiplon, our business and reputation may be harmed and our stock price could decline. We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses and negative operating cash flows for the near future, and we may never achieve sustained profitability. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including net losses of $88.6 million and $207.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As a result of ongoing operating 18 Table of Contents losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $703.3 million and $614.7 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We do not expect to be profitable for the year ending December 31, 2009 or the foreseeable future. We have not yet obtained regulatory approvals of any products and, consequently, have not generated revenues from the sale of products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drugs, we may not be profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures as we: • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • develop, formulate, manufacture and commercialize our drugs; • in-license or acquire new product development opportunities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • hire additional clinical, scientific and marketing personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the near future as we fund our operating losses, in-licensing or acquisition opportunities, and capital expenditures. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow. We may not be able to generate these revenues, and we may never achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Even if we become profitable, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Because our operating results may vary significantly in future periods, our stock price may decline. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate, among other reasons, due to our achievement of product development objectives and milestones, clinical trial enrollment and expenses, research and development expenses and the timing and nature of contract manufacturing and contract research payments. A high portion of our costs are predetermined on an annual basis, due in part to our significant research and development costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect operating results in a quarter. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We license some of our core technologies and drug candidates from third parties. If we default on any of our obligations under those licenses, we could lose our rights to those technologies and drug candidates. We are dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. These licenses typically subject us to various commercialization, reporting and other obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights. For example, we have licensed indiplon from DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc. (DOV). In addition, we license some of the core technologies used in our collaborations from third parties, including the CRF receptor we license from The Salk Institute and use in our CRF1 program, and urocortin 2 which we license from Research Development Foundation. Other in-licensed technologies, such as the GnRH receptor we license from Mount Sinai School of Medicine, will be important for future collaborations for our elagolix program. If we were to default on our obligations under any of our licenses, we could lose some or all of our rights to develop, market and sell products covered by these licenses. Likewise, if we were to lose our rights under a license to use proprietary research tools, it could adversely affect our existing collaborations or adversely affect our ability to form new collaborations. We also face the risk that our licensors could, for a number of reasons, lose patent protection or lose their rights to the technologies we have licensed, thereby impairing or extinguishing our rights under our licenses with them. Because the development of our product candidates is subject to a substantial degree of technological uncertainty, we may not succeed in developing any of our product candidates. All of our product candidates are in research, clinical development or in registration with the FDA. Only a small number of research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Potential 19 Table of Contents products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. These reasons include the possibilities that the potential products may: • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical studies or clinical trials; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all; • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; • be difficult to manufacture on a large scale; or • be uneconomical to commercialize or fail to achieve market acceptance. If any of our products encounters any of these potential problems, we may never successfully market that product. We have limited marketing experience, sales force or distribution capabilities, and if our products are approved, we may not be able to commercialize them successfully. Although we do not currently have any marketable products, our ability to produce revenues ultimately depends on our ability to sell our products if and when they are approved by the FDA. We currently have limited experience in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or fail to enter into successful marketing arrangements with third parties, our product revenues will suffer. The independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we rely upon to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations (CROs) to conduct our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it may delay or prevent the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. Moreover, these independent investigators and CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If independent investigators and CROs assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We have no manufacturing capabilities. If third-party manufacturers of our product candidates fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials and product introductions may be delayed and our costs may rise. We have in the past utilized, and intend to continue to utilize, third-party manufacturers to produce the drug compounds we use in our clinical trials and for the potential commercialization of our future products. We have no experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and do not currently have any manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we depend on, and will continue to depend on, several contract manufacturers for all production of products for development and commercial purposes. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers, we will not be able to develop or commercialize our products. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is subject to specific FDA regulations. Our third-party manufacturers might not comply with FDA regulations relating to manufacturing our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes or other regulatory requirements now or in the future. Our reliance on contract manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks: • contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, and also may experience shortages in qualified personnel. As a result, our contract manufacturers might not be able to meet our clinical schedules or adequately manufacture our products in commercial quantities when required; 20 Table of Contents • switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly on acceptable terms, or at all; • our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store or distribute our products; and • drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and other agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practices and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Our current dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may harm our profit margin, if any, on the sale of our future products and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified scientists or if any of our key senior executives discontinues his or her employment with us, it may delay our development efforts. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development objectives. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants are employed by employers other than us. They may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Governmental and third-party payors may impose sales and pharmaceutical pricing controls on our products that could limit our product revenues and delay profitability. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may reduce our potential revenues. These payors’ efforts could decrease the price that we receive for any products we may develop and sell in the future. In addition, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we develop. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, or if price controls are enacted, our product revenues will suffer. If physicians and patients do not accept our products, we may not recover our investment. The commercial success of our products, if they are approved for marketing, will depend upon the acceptance of our products as safe and effective by the medical community and patients. The market acceptance of our products could be affected by a number of factors, including: • the timing of receipt of marketing approvals; • the safety and efficacy of the products; 21 Table of Contents • the success of existing products addressing our target markets or the emergence of equivalent or superior products; and • the cost-effectiveness of the products. In addition, market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, and, to date, we have very limited sales and marketing experience or capabilities. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept our products as being safe, effective, superior and/or cost-effective, we may not recover our investment. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to comply with these laws, regulations and standards, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Over the course of the last 12 months, the price of our common stock has ranged from approximately $2 per share to approximately $6 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many factors, including: • the results of our clinical trials; • developments concerning our strategic alliance agreements; • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or others; • general economic and market conditions; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • developments related to the FDA approval process for indiplon; • future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; • comments by securities analysts; • fluctuations in our operating results; • government regulation; • health care reimbursement; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; and • public concern as to the safety of our drugs. 22 Table of Contents Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist of auction rate securities, corporate debt securities and government agency securities. As of December 31, 2008, our long-term investments included (at par value) $22.6 million of high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate securities issued by student loan providers. All of these auction rate securities have experienced failed auctions due to lack of liquidity at the time their interest rates were to reset. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of auction rate securities. As a result, certain of these types of securities are not fully liquid and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the issuer, a future auction for these securities is successful, another secondary market evolves for these securities, or they mature. In the event we need to access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we may not be able to do so without a potential loss of principal. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of all auction rate securities had been reduced by $3.9 million, from $22.6 million to $18.7 million, reflecting an estimated change in fair market value due primarily to a lack of liquidity. Although the auction rate securities continue to pay interest according to their stated terms, based on valuation models, we have recorded a unrealized loss for an other-than-temporary change in valuation of $3.9 million. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate or if uncertainties in these markets continue and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Risks Related to Our Industry We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates or approvals may be delayed. Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. Any failure to receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates would harm our business. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we fail or our collaborators or licensees fail to obtain or maintain, or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any products we develop, our ability to receive product or royalty revenues, our recovery of prepaid royalties, and our liquidity and capital resources. All of our products are in research and development, and we have not yet received regulatory approval to commercialize any product from the FDA or any other regulatory body. In addition, we have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may impede our ability to obtain such approvals. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The approval process may take many years to complete and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. If our potential products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for our products, if any, may be reduced. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of our product candidates from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. 23 Table of Contents Competition may also arise from, among other things: • other drug development technologies; • methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and • new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including endometriosis, anxiety, depression, pain, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, insomnia, and other neurological and endocrine related diseases and disorders, and there are a number of competitors to products in our research pipeline. If one or more of our competitors’ products or programs are successful, the market for our products may be reduced or eliminated. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical testing experience; • manufacturing and marketing experience; and • production facilities. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products based on our discoveries, which may reduce demand for our products. Our success will depend on our ability to, among other things: • obtain patent protection for our products; • preserve our trade secrets; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; and • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and internationally. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we intend to seek patent protection for our proprietary technology and compounds. However, we face the risk that we may not obtain any of these patents and that the breadth of claims we obtain, if any, may not provide adequate protection of our proprietary technology or compounds. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our commercial collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and some, but not all, of our commercial collaborators and consultants. However, if our employees, commercial collaborators or consultants breach these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, although we own a number of patents, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure you how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in limitations of their coverage. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or 24 Table of Contents successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. Interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The technologies we use in our research as well as the drug targets we select may infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us or our collaborators with respect to technologies used in potential products. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or our collaborators could be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us or our collaborators rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we could be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if our collaborators or we were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. The use of any of our potential products in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash reserves and could cause our stock price to fall. Our activities involve hazardous materials, and we may be liable for any resulting contamination or injuries. Our research activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If an accident occurs, a court may hold us liable for any resulting damages, which may harm our results of operations and cause us to use a substantial portion of our cash reserves, which would force us to seek additional financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 