Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Stock, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what is described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Furthermore, past financial performance may not be a reliable indication of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our Common Stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment. General Economic Trends are Unfavorable The recent worldwide economic downturn in 2009 and the anemic economic growth that followed since, as well as the current debt crisis in the EU, had, and may, in the future, have, a negative impact on our financial performance. Lingering adverse conditions in local, regional, national and global markets could negatively impact our operations in the future. During periods of economic contraction like that recently experienced, certain costs can remain fixed or even increase, while revenues decline. The gaming services we provide are similar to other leisure activities in that they depend on personal discretionary expenditures, which are likely to decline during economic downturns. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, and particularly in Europe, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, potentially rising interest rates, increasing energy costs, rising prices, inflation, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in world stock markets could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on entertainment and leisure activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, even the perception of an impending economic downturn or the continuation of a recessionary climate can be enough to discourage consumers from spending on leisure activities. We cannot predict at this time what the full effect and extent will be of the global recession and the subsequent extended period of slow-growth on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We Face Significant Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry with a large number of participants, some of which have financial and other resources that are greater than ours. The gaming industry faces competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options, as well as home entertainment alternatives. Competitive gaming activities include traditional casinos, video lottery terminals, internet gaming, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized gaming in the Czech Republic and in other jurisdictions. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms in the Czech Republic, Austria and Germany. Moreover, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of 7 Table of Contents existing gaming operations. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, internet gaming and wagering is growing rapidly and may be affecting competition in our industry. Web-based businesses may offer consumers a wide variety of events to wager on, including other games, racetracks and sporting events. Unlike most web-based gaming companies, we pay taxes in the jurisdictions in which we operate and our operations require ongoing capital expenditures for both their continued smooth operations and growth. We could also face significantly greater costs in operating our business compared to these internet gaming companies. We cannot offer the same number of gaming options as internet-based gaming companies. Many internet-based gaming companies are based off-shore and avoid regulation under applicable Czech laws. These companies may divert wagering dollars from live wagering venues, such as our casinos. The continued growth and success of these on-line ventures could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Our facilities in the Czech Republic represent a significant portion of our business, and the revenue generated is generally denominated in Euros (“EUR” or “€”) and the expenses incurred by these facilities are generally denominated in CZK. The potential depreciation in the value of either of these currencies against the USD would adversely impact the revenue and operating profit from our operations when translated into USD, which would have a commensurate effect on our consolidated results of operations. (See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk”). We do not currently hedge our exposure to fluctuations of these foreign currencies, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge any future foreign currency exposure, if we subsequently choose to do so in the future. Need to Diversify At this time, our operations are primarily located in the Czech Republic. Therefore, any future adverse legislation in the Czech Republic may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial results and financial condition. We are currently seeking to develop and/or acquire additional interests in gaming operations and hotels in other European countries. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or acquire such new operations in the future. Need for Additional Financing Although we have achieved positive net income for the tenth consecutive year, pursuant to our growth strategies, we may require additional debt and/or equity financing for the acquisition and development of new businesses or business units. We may also need to access the capital markets or otherwise obtain additional funds to finance the continuing maintenance, renovation, or re-theming of currently owned facilities or the development of new operations (such as Hotel Savannah). There is no guarantee that we could obtain such financing or funds on favorable terms to us or at all. Potential changes in legislation and regulation of our operations Regulations governing the conduct of gaming activities and the obligations of gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial or other burdens on the way we conduct our business. Moreover, legislation to prohibit, limit, or add burdens to our business may be introduced in the future in the Czech Republic or elsewhere where gaming has been legalized. In addition, from time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results 8 Table of Contents Taxation of Gaming Operations Gaming operators are typically subject to significant taxes, which may increase at any time. Any material increase in these taxes or fees would adversely affect our results of operations. The Czech Republic currently has a number of laws related to various taxes imposed by governmental authorities. Applicable taxes include VAT, gaming tax and payroll (social) taxes. In December 2011, the Czech government passed sweeping gaming tax legislation that became effective in 2012. These tax changes have negatively and materially impacted our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012 and very likely beyond. In this new tax law, the government eliminated the “charity contribution tax” scheme and, in lieu of it, changed the existing revenue-based, tiered rate gaming tax structure to a flat 20% gaming tax on all gaming revenues, plus an applicable corporate income tax (19% for 2012 and the foreseeable future) on adjusted net income (derived from any revenue sources, including gaming). These tax changes and other tax declarations, together with other legal compliance areas (for example, customs and currency control matters) are subject to review and investigation by a number of different Czech authorities, which are authorized by law to impose fines, penalties and interest charges. These reviews may create additional tax risks that, if applied to TWC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence upon Key Personnel Our ability to successfully implement our strategy of expansion, manage the existing casinos, and maintain a competitive position will continue to depend, in large part, on the ability of Mr. Rami S. Ramadan, the Company’s President, Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). The Company is also dependent upon other key employees, casino managers, and consultants, whom we retain from time to time. International Activities Our operations are completely outside of the United States. Operating internationally involves additional risks including, but not limited to currency exchange rates, different legal or regulatory environments, political and economic risks relating to the stability or predictability of foreign governments, differences in the manner in which different cultures do business, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, differences in financial reporting, operating difficulties, different types of criminal threats and other factors. The occurrence of any of these risks, if severe enough, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Climate Impact The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualty events, including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical or electrical or telecommunications failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, wind, snow, ice or other severe weather conditions. As the majority of our clientele travel from German and Austrian border regions, we are highly dependent on the volume and frequency of these players’ visitations, which impact our operating revenues. Inclement weather conditions on the roads to our casinos can serve to drastically reduce the number of visitations, which did in fact occur in the first and last quarter of 2011. On the other hand, warm and favorable outdoor weather can also divert players to alternative activities, such as family outings. The frequency and strength of any of these aforementioned climate conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Licensing and Regulation Our operations are subject to regulation by each federal and local jurisdiction in which we operate. Each of our officers may be subject to strict scrutiny and approval from the gaming commission or other regulatory body of each jurisdiction in which we conduct gaming operations. Furthermore, the operations of our casinos are contingent upon maintaining all necessary regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the operations of the casinos, the payment of taxes, the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. All of our casinos are duly licensed by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, and we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain these operations. 9 Table of Contents Czech regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. The suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. Liability Insurance We may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. We may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed while visiting our locations. While we currently carry adequate general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses in such event. No Dividends We have not paid any dividends to date on our Common Stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any are generated, for investment in our current operations and for future project developments. Dilutive Effect of Options, Warrants, Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Stock As of February 28, 2013, there were 660,575 options and 75,000 warrants outstanding to purchase shares of our Common Stock, plus 150,698 shares issuable under the Company’s Deferred Compensation Plan and 75,000 shares of performance-tied restricted stock, which, if all were vested and exercised, would represent 9.8% of the 9,788,508 shares of Common Stock that would be outstanding. The issuance of such securities would have a dilutive effect on any earnings per share that we may generate when the earnings per share are evaluated on a fully diluted basis. Possible Adverse Effect of Issuance of Preferred Stock Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of four million shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences to be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the dividend rights and/or voting power or other rights of the holders of the Common Stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Our Board of Directors has no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. However, there can be no assurance that preferred stock will not be issued at some time in the future. Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable and other information, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information, or a violation of the Company’s privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. In connection with our business, we collect and retain large volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees. Such information includes but is not limited to large volumes of customer credit and payment card information. The legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and under increasing attack by cyber-criminals in the U.S. and Europe. A significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, employee or our data by cybercrime or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation, business integrity, and ultimately, our business prospects, and could result in fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 