ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements including statements regarding, among other items, business strategy, growth strategy and anticipated trends in our business, which are made pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “believe,” “expect” and “anticipate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement is made. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and are beyond our control. Future events and actual results could differ 9 Table of Contents materially from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements. Statements in this report, including those set forth in “Risk Factors,” describe factors, among others, that could contribute to or cause such differences. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report will in fact transpire or prove to be accurate. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including without limitation the following: Risks Relating to Operations • We have a history of significant net losses, and we may not be profitable in the future; we may need to seek the forbearance of creditors in the future. Although we have reached a positive result in 2005 and 2004, we incurred in net losses of R$4,118,000 and R$11,210,000 for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2005 was R$58,687,000 and our working capital deficit at such date was R$4,371,000. The year 2005 presented a positive macroeconomic scenario that, together with strong measures implemented by the Company in its operation and administration, has helped it turns itself profitable. Yet, we cannot say that the negative tendency is wholly reversed. Some of our own stores are still non-profitable and our small operation margins are constantly been affected by market factors concerning raw material, wages and location costs. • Our registered public accounting firm’s report raises uncertainties about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of BDO, the registered public accounting firm of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and those of Grant Thornton Auditores Independentes, the independent auditor of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, recite that our recurrent losses from operations and negative working capital raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans to continue as a going concern, discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, focus on efforts to increase our cash flow. At this time, we cannot state with any degree of certainty whether such increase will be possible and, if possible, sufficient to pay our debt obligations or operating expenses. • Our success depends on our ability to compete with our major competitors in the fast food industry. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to compete with other restaurants and fast food chains. To compete, we may be required to spend significant funds on marketing and promotions and on developing and offering new products, while maintaining the prices we charge our customers. Many of our competitors have vastly greater over-all financial and other resources available to them than we do. For this reason, we may not have the resources necessary to compete effectively, which may cause consumers to prefer the products of our competitors. As a result, we could experience a decrease in revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our business and operations. • A new challenge: the light food. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to respond promptly to changing consumer preferences. The demand for low fat and less caloric food has increased significantly in the last few years. In addition, Government is constantly imposing new disclosure rules on the nutrition content of food products on sale. To respond in accordance, we may be required to spend significant funds on research and development of new products, new food preparation methods and new appliances, as well as 10 Table of Contents on preparing and printing disclosure materials to be exposed in stores and on food packages. We may not have the resources necessary to compete effectively, which may cause consumers to prefer the products of our competitors. As a result, we could experience a decrease in revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our business and operations. • Our future success is dependent upon the success and expansion of our franchise program. A portion of our revenues is attributable to the fees we collect from our franchisees. To improve our revenues in the future, we have developed a growth strategy that includes increasing our number of franchised points of sale. This growth strategy is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and contract with qualified franchisees and the ability of these franchisees to open and operate their Bob’s points of sale successfully. In addition, our continued growth will depend in part on the ability of our existing and future franchisees to obtain sufficient financing or investment capital to meet their market development obligations. If we experience difficulty in contracting with qualified franchisees, if franchisees are unable to meet their development obligations or if franchisees are unable to operate their points of sale profitably, the amount of franchise fees paid to us by our franchisees would decrease and our future operating results could be adversely affected. • We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the food service industry. Both our franchisees and we are subject to regulatory provisions relating to the wholesomeness of food, sanitation, health, safety, fire, land use and environmental standards. Suspension of certain licenses or approvals due to our or our franchisees failure to comply with applicable regulations could interrupt the operations of the affected restaurant and inhibit our or their ability to sell products. Both our franchisees and we are also subject to Brazilian federal labor codes, which establish minimum wages and regulate overtime and working conditions. Changes in such codes could result in increased labor costs that could cause a reduction in our operating income. We are also subject to Brazilian federal franchising laws applicable to franchise relationships and operations. Changes in these or any other regulations may contain requirements that impose increased burdens on our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deal successfully with any potential new or amended regulations. Risks Relating to Brazil • Our operations are subject to changes in Brazil’s economy. Our business is very sensitive to the economic activity, and is highly affected by consumers’ confidence, population average income and employment. In Brazil, these three factors have been limited by an economic growth that has averaged 2.0% p.a. in the last eight years, what is a mediocre rate in comparison to other developing countries. To blame there are Brazil’s tax burden, which accounts for an estimated 38% of GDP, and real interest rate, which, at around 11% p.a., is among the highest in the world. In addition, Brazilian economic activity has been highly volatile: short periods of expansion alternating with contraction. Even though, monetary policy has been consistent for all these years, inflation rates have exceeded the inflation target fixed by the National Monetary Counsel. Tax burden and interest rates pressure our business by depressing our margins and increasing our cost of capital. Also, inflation pressure our business because, although inflation is often reflected on food products and packing material we purchase, as well as, on utility service and occupancy expenses we incur, to pass on higher costs is not always possible due to Brazilian low consumers’ purchase power. 11 Table of Contents Besides, higher inflation can pressure labor costs and increase unemployment, which has an adverse effect on our business, since it spurs informal business, such as moveable food vendors at the street. • Our business may be affected by political and constitutional uncertainty in Brazil. High levels of uncertainty have marked the Brazilian political environment since the country returned to civilian rule in 1985 after 20 years of military government. Brazil’s democracy structure still lacks of solid political institutions, committed political parties and fair judicial system. • Controls on foreign investments may limit our ability to receive capital from our Brazilian operating subsidiary Brazil generally requires the registration of foreign capital invested in Brazilian markets or businesses. Thereafter, any repatriation of the foreign capital, or income earned on the foreign capital investment, must be approved by the Brazilian government. Although approvals on repatriation are usually granted and we know of no current restrictions on foreign capital remittances, there can be no assurance that in the future approvals on repatriation will be granted or restrictions or adverse policies will not be imposed. If the Brazilian government delays or refuses to grant approval for the repatriation of funds or imposes restrictions on the remittance of foreign capital, the ability of our Brazilian operating subsidiary, Venbo Comercio de Alimentos Ltda., to transfer cash from our operations out of Brazil may be limited. Risks related to our common stock and shareholders agreement • Common stock. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on March 11, 2002. As a result, our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may reduce the already thin trading market of our common stock. In addition, the delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may significantly impair our ability to raise additional funds to operate our business. • Shareholders agreement. On August 11, 1997, we entered into a stockholders’ agreement with AIG Latin America Equity Partners, Ltd., referred to herein as “AIGLAEP”, and our then-current executive officers and directors and certain of their affiliates. The stockholders’ agreement provided that if we fail to achieve the performance targets for each of the periods from January 1, 1997 to December 31, 1999, 2000 or 2001, respectively, AIGLAEP could appoint such number of its designees which, together with an expansion of the board and the filling of vacancies created by the resignation of certain directors serving at such time, would then constitute a majority of our board of directors, thereby effecting a change in our control. The 1997 stockholders’ agreement was amended on March 14, 2001, to suspend AIGLAEP right to appoint a majority of our board of directors as we failed to achieve the performance targets for year ended December 31, 2000. The amendment set forth new performance targets, including macroeconomic parameters in which such targets should be achieved, for the following two years ended December 31, 2002. On May 15, 2002, we entered into an additional stockholders agreement with Bigburger Ltda. and CCC Empreendimentos e Participacoes Ltda., referred to herein as “Investors”, and our then-current executive officers and directors and certain of their affiliates. The agreement was signed in order to provide BFFC with capital, for the subsequent injection of resources into Venbo, in the amount of 12 Table of Contents R$5,000,000, during the first provision, and, for the second provision, the amount in Reais that corresponds to US$ 850,000 at the time of the second provision, to be converted using the exchange rate equivalent to the PTAX average rate for commercial Dollars, published by the Central Bank of Brazil. On December 20, 2004, AIGLAEP sold its total number of shares in equal parts to the Investors, terminating the stockholders agreement signed on 1997 and amended on 2001. Risks related to juridical and financial contingencies • Special financing of fiscal debts. Since 2002, we have been beneficiaries of a special financing of fiscal past due obligations. This program was called REFIS and, pursuant to several regulations, the past due obligations are now consolidated in a program called PAES. This program consists in paying monthly to the government a sum which corresponds to 1.5% of our revenues plus interest rates, calculated on the basis of TJLP – Long Term Interest Rate, an annual interest rate established by the National Monetary Counsel for a three-months period (currently at 9.0% p.a.). The term for this PAES program is 15 years counted from July 1, 2003 when the PAES became valid and in full execution. At the present moment our debt is of approximately R$14,628,000. The sum we pay monthly increases as a function of our revenues growth. Interests are paid monthly calculated on the balance of the debt, the TJLP been applied to the balance from July 1, 2003. This means that if our sales don’t grow at the same rate as the TJLP the balance of the debt in current terms will always grow and the sum we will pay monthly will become greater. All companies participating of this program know they will be in serious financial difficulties in 4 or 5 years. The only solution for this problem would be an amnesty voted by the government and confirmed by the parliament that would reduce the debt or the interest paid, but we cannot assure this solution will be adopted. As a consequence this represents a serious risk to our possibility of refinancing our fiscal debt in the next years. We have found several differences in the figures exposed by the government and our books. All of them seem to come from government errors and we are pleading for corrections. • Past due fiscal obligations of VENDEX. VENDEX was the owner of Venbo Comércio de Alimentos Ltda., our Brazilian subsidiary, before BFFC purchased it in 1996. At that moment a due diligence was done on Venbo’s accounts to evaluate their debts and other liabilities and assets. The agreement that was signed between VENDEX and BFFC covering the transaction determined that VENDEX would be responsible for any hidden liability or future liability concerning the acts of the company prior to the date of the agreement. Yet, a clause restricts VENDEX responsibility to 5% of the price paid by BFFC, a sum that is around R$3,500,000 at the present moment. Another clause says this limitation is not valid for certain taxes not mentioned in the agreement but it is not clear enough which the limits are between taxes covered or not by the limitation clause. In the past years we have surveyed the situation of Venbo’s fiscal debts prior to 1996 through the communications we received from the fiscal authorities. These communications were immediately sent to VENDEX lawyers with whom we were in permanent contact and who took care of the several processes in which VENDEX was involved. The sums in discussion seemed to be within the limits of the agreement. Yet, in the last months of 2004, we found that other debts had appeared and sums begun to exceed the mentioned limit so becoming a financial risk for our company that could be included in the 13 Table of Contents government’s demands. All government demands are been discussed by VENDEX lawyers, but we have called Venbo’s lawyers to defend our interests against VENDEX. Our lawyers have been studying the purchase agreement VENDEX/BFFC because other clauses of this agreement may be used to protect our company. Anyway, this is a contingency that we cannot evaluate at the present moment. We don’t know the probability of success the matters contained in lawsuits, the extent of VENDEX and Venbo’s responsibilities and we don’t know exactly the amount that is involved in each process or that could be a new liability in our balance sheet. In 2005, we have been summoned by the fiscal authority of the State of Rio de Janeiro to pay a debt of R$45,000. In order to have a right to appeal we have been obliged to put in a pledge one of our real states. VENDEX assumed the defense but has not substituted the seizure of our asset. This means that, if these fiscal acts pursue in the future, we may be forced to sue VENDEX in order to claim for our contractual rights, a long term process that, in the meantime, may affect our cash flow. • Legal contingencies. In 2003, one franchisee has recently initiated a lawsuit against our company. He was an unsuccessful franchisee that became a permanent debtor of royalty and marketing contributions. All the efforts we have done for long periods to improve his business failed. We finally decided to interrupt the franchise contract and we obtained the closure of the stores explored by this franchisee. His demand is based on a principle that is against the basis of the franchise way of operation. He supposes the franchiser may be considered responsible for having offered the operation of a store with guaranteed profitability. Even if this argument is completely against the franchise laws and the usual practices of our business, it is not impossible that this franchisee may succeed in convincing a jury or a judge that some indemnity or compensation must be paid by our company. This contingency is not accrued as a liability in our financial statements for we consider the risk of failure in our defense is remote. However, we must call the attention of our shareholders and future investors to the existing risk. (as of today, this claim is of approximately R$5,000,000) • Tax contingencies. a) ISS — This is a municipal tax paid on services rendered. In 2004 a new regulation included franchise royalties and other revenues in the list of “services rendered” that pay a 5% tax on these revenues to the Town Hall. We are defending, as all other franchisers, that the franchise law explicitly determines that franchise revenues don’t pay services but rights to use a brand. Concerning marketing taxes they are not revenues but sums franchisees transfer to the franchiser for him to administrate marketing events, publicity and promotions. Our demand failed in the first instance but we have appealed to the Court. Yet, Municipal Inspectors investigated our subsidiary in routine inspection that started in 2004 and was concluded on March 2005. They stated in their report that ISS must be applied to all franchise revenues from the year 2000, that means the whole period involving our two lawsuits in due course. The amount to be paid is R$2,500,000 plus interest and fines. They also stated that we should pay ISS on the sums received for exclusivity contracts with suppliers representing R$91,500 plus interest and fines. We are pleading also in Court that these contracts are not services. Anyway, this ISS tax is a risk that could oblige us to increase our prices seriously affecting our revenues in the future and in case we would be losers in law suits it would seriously affect our bottom line income and our cash flow. We are now paying ISS on Royalties in Court and there is a provision registered in our balance sheet liabilities. b) ICMS Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo – ICMS is a value added tax Venbo pays regularly since May 2002. Every debt registered as of May 2002 has been paid and the Company has not incurred 14 Table of Contents in new past due debt since then. This tax is paid to the Governments of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo states and to the Federal District (Brasília). Each month the company sends an electronically report – “SINTEGRA”- to the Government fiscal authorities, which includes several forms relating to sales and sale expenses coming from the own stores. In August 2005, the fiscal authorities of Rio de Janeiro, and later on the São Paulo authorities, compelled the company to submit form 60, one of SINTERGA’s forms, in a compact disc (CD) with 4 years month figures corresponding to two stores. A technical difficulty was found and the company couldn’t fulfill the requirement. As a consequence, the company was penalized in Rio de Janeiro with a R$750,000 fine, duly registered in the balance sheet. The company appealed to the Courts claiming the information required was not a primary obligation but an accessory obligation, hence the amount inflicted was not in accordance with the nature of the fault. If this fine were to be applied to all of our own and operated stores, the amount could reach several millions of Reais (R$). We hope to negotiate this matter with the authorities both in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo to avoid a major problem, find a solution for the future magnetic registers and pay a reasonable fine for the past due registrations we will not be able to recover. Anyway, this is a major contingency that must be taken into account when evaluating the company’s financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 