Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business operations involve certain risks, some of which are unique to our organization, while others are common to the industry that we operate in. Below are important factors to consider: General Economic Trends are Unfavorable There is a possibility that the recent significant economic downturn being experienced in Europe has and may, in the future, have, a negative impact on our financial performance. Adverse conditions in local, regional, national and global markets could likely negatively impact our operations in the near future. During periods of economic contraction like that currently being experienced, certain costs can remain fixed or even increase, while revenues decline. The gaming services we provide are similar to other leisure activities in that they depend on personal discretionary expenditures, which are likely to decline during economic downturns. In some cases, even the perception of an impending economic downturn or the continuation of a recessionary climate can be enough to discourage consumers from spending on leisure activities. We cannot predict at this time what the full effect will be of the current global recession on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We Face Significant Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry with a large number of participants, some of which have financial and other resources that are greater than ours. The gaming industry faces competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options, as well as home entertainment alternatives. Competitive gaming activities include traditional casinos, video lottery terminals, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized gaming in the Czech Republic and in other jurisdictions. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms in the Czech Republic, Austria and Germany. Moreover, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, web-based interactive gaming and wagering is growing rapidly and may be affecting competition in our industry. Web-based businesses may offer consumers a wide variety of events to wager on, including other games, racetracks and sporting events. Unlike most on-line and web-based gaming companies, our operations require ongoing capital expenditures for both their continued smooth operations and growth. We could also face significantly greater costs in operating our business compared to these Internet gaming companies. We cannot offer the same number of gaming options as on-line and Internet-based gaming companies. Many on-line and web-based gaming companies are based off-shore and avoid regulation under applicable Czech laws. These companies may divert wagering dollars from live wagering venues, such as our casinos. The continued growth and success of these on-line ventures could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Our facilities in the Czech Republic represent a significant portion of our business, and the revenue generated is generally denominated in Euros (“EUR”) and the expenses incurred by these facilities are generally denominated in Czech Korunas (“CZK”). A decrease in the value of either of these currencies in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar (“USD”) would decrease the revenue and operating profit from our operations when translated into U.S. dollars, which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. (See also “Item 7 Table of Contents 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk”). We do not currently hedge our exposure to fluctuations of these foreign currencies, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge any future foreign currency exposure, if we subsequently choose to do so. Need to Diversify At this time, our operations are primarily located in the Czech Republic. Therefore, any future adverse legislation of the Czech Republic may have a negative impact on our operations and financial results. We are currently seeking to develop or acquire additional interests in gaming operations and hotels in other European countries. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or acquire such new operations in the future. Taxation of Gaming Operations Gaming operators are typically subject to significant taxes, which may increase at any time. Any material increase in these taxes or fees would adversely affect our results of operations. The Czech Republic currently has a number of laws related to various taxes imposed by governmental authorities. Applicable taxes include VAT, gaming tax, charity contribution tax, and payroll (social) taxes. Tax declarations, together with other legal compliance areas (for example, customs and currency control matters) are subject to review and investigation by a number of different Czech authorities, which are authorized by law to impose fines, penalties and interest charges, may create tax risks. We believe that we have adequately provided for our Czech tax liabilities. (See also Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Dependence upon Key Personnel Our ability to successfully implement our strategy of expansion, manage the existing casinos, and maintain a competitive position will continue to depend, in large part, on the ability of Mr. Rami S. Ramadan, the Company’s President, Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). The Company is also dependent upon other key employees, casino managers, and consultants, whom we retain from time to time. Need for Additional Financing Although we have achieved positive net income for the seventh consecutive year, pursuant to our growth strategies, we require additional debt and/or equity financing for the acquisition and development of new businesses or business units. In this regard, our ability to obtain additional financing has been improved significantly, as evidenced by our securing of the Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft, pobocka Praha (“Commerzbank”) revolving credit facility in 2008, and subsequent replacement in November 2009 by a Commerzbank, two-tranche credit facility, consisting of a 4-year term loan and a smaller revolving credit line (see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Despite these improvements, there can be no assurance that such financing will continue to be available on terms favorable to us or at all. International Activities Our operations are completely outside of the United States. Operating internationally involves additional risks relating to such things as currency exchange rates, different legal or regulatory environments, political and economic risks relating to the stability or predictability of foreign governments, differences in the manner in which different cultures do business, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, differences in financial 8 Table of Contents reporting, operating difficulties, different types of criminal threats and other factors. The occurrence of any of these risks, if severe enough, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Climate Impact As the majority of our clientele travel from German and Austrian border regions, we are highly dependent on the volume and frequency of these players’ visitations, which impact our operating revenues. Wintry and icy climate conditions on the roads to our casinos can serve to drastically reduce the number of visitations. On the other hand, warm and favorable outdoor weather can also divert players to alternative activities, such as family outings and picnics. The frequency and strength of any of these aforementioned climate conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Licensing and Regulation Our operations are subject to regulation by each federal and local jurisdiction in which we operate. Each of our officers may be subject to strict scrutiny and approval from the gaming commission or other regulatory body of each jurisdiction in which we conduct gaming operations. In 1998, the Czech Republic’s House of Deputies passed an amendment to the gaming law, which restricted foreign ownership of casino licenses. In response, the Company restructured its subsidiaries and Czech legal entities to comply with the amendment and was subsequently granted 10-year gaming licenses, which, in October 2008, were renewed by the government of the Czech Republic for another 10-year term, expiring in December 2018. There can be no assurance that the authorities in the Czech Republic will not amend the gaming law as it pertains to foreign ownership of casino licenses. In the event the gaming laws are amended in the future, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future profitability and operations. Liability Insurance We currently maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, general liability insurance in each of those locations in which we operate. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of such policies or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover unanticipated liabilities. No Dividends We have not paid any dividends to date on our common stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any are generated, for investment in our current operations and for future project developments. Dilutive Effect of Options and Warrants As of February 28, 2010, there were 838,745 options and 75,000 warrants outstanding to purchase shares of our common stock, which, if all were exercised, would represent 9.3% of the 9,785,385 shares of common stock that would be outstanding. The issuance of such securities would have a dilutive effect on any earnings per share that we may generate when the earnings per share are evaluated on a fully diluted basis. 9 Table of Contents Possible Adverse Effect of Issuance of Preferred Stock Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of four (4) million shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences to be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Our Board of Directors has no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. However, there can be no assurance that preferred stock will not be issued at some time in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 