ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements including statements regarding, among other items, business strategy, growth strategy and anticipated trends in our business, which are made pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “believe,” “expect” and “anticipate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement is made. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and are beyond our control. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements. Statements in this report, including those set forth in “Risk Factors,” describe factors, among others, that could contribute to or cause such differences. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report will in fact transpire or prove to be accurate. Risks Relating to Operations Our success depends on our ability to efficiently compete in the food service industry. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to compete with formal and informal players in the eating out segment, respond promptly to changing consumer preferences, improve and promote our products and services, recruit and motivate qualified restaurant personnel and boost consumer perceptions of our food quality and restaurants facilities, while maintaining the prices we charge our customers and our operational margins. The demand for low fat and less caloric food has increased significantly in the last few years and the Brazilian Government is glowingly imposing new disclosure rules on the nutrition content of food products on sale as well as restrictions on advertising and promotions. To respond in accordance, we may be required to spend significant funds on research and development of new products, product line extensions, new food preparation methods and new appliances, training, as well as preparing and printing disclosure materials to be exposed in stores and on food packages. We may not have the resources necessary to compete effectively, which may cause consumers to prefer the products of our competitors, and our marketing campaigns may have a diminished effect. As a result, we could experience a decrease in revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our future success is dependent upon the success and expansion of our franchise program. A portion of our revenues is attributable to the fees we collect from our franchisees. 7 To improve our revenues in the future, we have developed a growth strategy that includes increasing our number of franchised points of sale. This growth strategy is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and contract with qualified franchisees and the ability of these franchisees to open and operate their points of sale successfully. In addition, our continued growth will depend in part on the ability of our existing and future franchisees to obtain sufficient financing or investment capital to meet their market development obligations and this may be also influenced by the Brazilian economy and market development. If we experience difficulty in contracting with qualified franchisees, if franchisees are unable to meet their development obligations or if franchisees are unable to operate their points of sale profitably, the amount of franchise fees paid to us by our franchisees would decrease and our future operating results could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the food service industry. Both our franchisees and we are subject to regulatory provisions relating to the wholesomeness of food, sanitation, health, safety, fire, land use and environmental standards. Suspension of certain licenses or approvals due to our or our franchisees failure to comply with applicable regulations could interrupt the operations of the affected restaurant and inhibit our or their ability to sell products. Both our franchisees and we are also subject to Brazilian federal labor codes, which establish minimum wages and regulate overtime and working conditions. Changes in such codes could result in increased labor costs that could cause a reduction in our operating income. We are also subject to Brazilian federal franchising laws applicable to franchise relationships and operations. Changes in these or any other regulations may contain requirements that impose increased burdens on our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure that we will be able to deal successfully with any potential new or amended regulations. Risks Relating to the Economy Our business is subject to changes in global and local market conditions. Our business is very sensitive to the economic activity, and is highly affected by consumers’ confidence, population average income and employment. Tax burden and interest rates pressure our business by depressing our margins and increasing our cost of capital. Also, inflation pressure our business because, although inflation is often reflected on food products and packing material we purchase, as well as on utility service and occupancy expenses we incur, to pass on higher costs is not always possible due to low consumers’ purchase power. Besides, higher inflation can pressure labor costs and increase unemployment, which has an adverse effect on our business, since it spurs informal business, such as moveable food vendors at the street. We cannot assure we will be able to implement emergency measures to mitigate these risks. Our business may be affected by political and constitutional uncertainty in Brazil. High levels of uncertainty have marked the Brazilian political environment since the country returned to civilian rule in 1985. Although Brazil’s democracy structure has gone through outstanding improvements in the last years, it still lacks of solid political institutions, committed political parties and mature judicial system. The country suffers from constant institutional changes that turn very difficult the continuity of long-term development plans and that can adversely affect our strategies. Controls on foreign investments may limit our ability to receive capital from our Brazilian operating subsidiary Brazil generally requires the registration of foreign capital invested in Brazilian markets or businesses. Thereafter, any repatriation of the foreign capital, or income earned on the foreign capital investment, must be approved by the Brazilian government. Although approvals on repatriation are usually granted and we know of 8 no current restrictions on foreign capital remittances, there can be no assurance that in the future approvals on repatriation will be granted or restrictions or adverse policies will not be imposed. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has been delisted from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on March 11, 2002. As a result, our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may reduce the already thin trading market of our common stock. In addition, the delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may significantly impair our ability to raise additional funds to operate our business. Risks Related to past due fiscal obligations of VENDEX We may be responsible for possible hidden or future liabilities of VENDEX prior to our acquisition of VENDEX. The purchase agreement of Venbo, signed by VENDEX and the Company in 1996, determined that VENDEX would be responsible for any hidden liability or future liability related to the period prior to the acquisition, limited to certain conditions. To our knowledge, VENDEX’s attorneys are defending all fiscal authority demands; however, the Company cannot predict what impact, if any, material claims, disputes or other matters related to VENDEX might have on its business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 