ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements including statements regarding, among other items, business strategy, growth strategy and anticipated trends in our business, which are made pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “believe,” “expect” and “anticipate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement is made. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and are beyond our control. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements. Statements in this report, including those set forth in “Risk Factors,” describe factors, among others, that could contribute to or cause such differences. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report will in fact transpire or prove 8 Table of Contents to be accurate. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including without limitation the following: Risks Relating to Operations We have a history of significant net losses, and we may not be profitable in the future; we may need to seek the forbearance of creditors in the future. Although we have reached a positive result in 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred in net losses of R$4.1 million and R$11.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006 was R$48.7 million and our working capital deficit at such date was R$3.5 million. The years of 2006 and 2005 presented positive macroeconomic scenarios that, together with strong measures implemented in our operation and administration, have helped to turn the Company profitable. Yet, we cannot assure that the negative tendency has been wholly reversed. Our success depends on our ability to efficiently compete in the food service industry. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to compete with formal and informal players in the eating out segment, respond promptly to changing consumer preferences, improve and promote our products and services, recruit and motivate qualified restaurant personnel and boost consumer perceptions of our food quality and restaurants facilities, while maintaining the prices we charge our customers and our operational margins. The demand for low fat and less caloric food has increased significantly in the last few years and the Government is constantly imposing new disclosure rules on the nutrition content of food products on sale. To respond in accordance, we may be required to spend significant funds on marketing, research and development of new products, product line extensions, new food preparation methods and new appliances, training, as well as preparing and printing disclosure materials to be exposed in stores and on food packages. We may not have the resources necessary to compete effectively, which may cause consumers to prefer the products of our competitors. As a result, we could experience a decrease in revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our future success is dependent upon the success and expansion of our franchise program. A portion of our revenues is attributable to the fees we collect from our franchisees. To improve our revenues in the future, we have developed a growth strategy that includes increasing our number of franchised points of sale. This growth strategy is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and contract with qualified franchisees and the ability of these franchisees to open and operate their Bob’s points of sale successfully. In addition, our continued growth will depend in part on the ability of our existing and future franchisees to obtain sufficient financing or investment capital to meet their market development obligations. If we experience difficulty in contracting with qualified franchisees, if franchisees are unable to meet their development obligations or if franchisees are unable to operate their points of sale profitably, the amount of franchise fees paid to us by our franchisees would decrease and our future operating results could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the food service industry. Both our franchisees and we are subject to regulatory provisions relating to the wholesomeness of food, sanitation, health, safety, fire, land use and environmental standards. Suspension of certain licenses or approvals due to our or our franchisees failure to comply with applicable regulations could interrupt the operations of the affected restaurant and inhibit our or their ability to sell products. Both our franchisees and we are also subject to Brazilian federal labor codes, which establish minimum wages and regulate overtime and working conditions. Changes in such codes could result in increased labor costs that could cause a reduction in our operating income. We are also subject to Brazilian federal franchising laws applicable to franchise relationships and operations. Changes in these or any other regulations may contain requirements that impose increased burdens on our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deal successfully with any potential new or amended regulations. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Brazil Our business is subject to changes in Brazil’s economy. Our business is very sensitive to the economic activity, and is highly affected by consumers’ confidence, population average income and employment. In Brazil, these three factors have been limited by an economic growth that has averaged 2.4% p.a. in the last eight years, what is a mediocre rate in comparison to other developing countries. To blame there are Brazil’s tax burden, which accounts for an estimated 38.0% of GDP, and real interest rate, which, at around 10.0% p.a., is among the highest in the world. In addition, Brazilian economic activity has been highly volatile: short periods of expansion alternating with contraction. Even though, monetary policy has been consistent for all these years, inflation rates have exceeded the inflation target fixed by the National Monetary Counsel. Tax burden and interest rates pressure our business by depressing our margins and increasing our cost of capital. Also, inflation pressure our business because, although inflation is often reflected on food products and packing material we purchase, as well as, on utility service and occupancy expenses we incur, to pass on higher costs is not always possible due to Brazilian low consumers’ purchase power. Besides, higher inflation can pressure labor costs and increase unemployment, which has an adverse effect on our business, since it spurs informal business, such as moveable food vendors at the street. Our business may be affected by political and constitutional uncertainty in Brazil. High levels of uncertainty have marked the Brazilian political environment since the country returned to civilian rule in 1985 after 20 years of military government. Brazil’s democratic structure still lacks of solid political institutions, committed political parties and fair judicial system. Controls on foreign investments may limit our ability to receive capital from our Brazilian operating subsidiary. Brazil generally requires the registration of foreign capital invested in Brazilian markets or businesses. Thereafter, any repatriation of the foreign capital, or income earned on the foreign capital investment, must be approved by the Brazilian government. Although approvals on repatriation are usually granted and we know of no current restrictions on foreign capital remittances, there can be no assurance that in the future approvals on repatriation will be granted or restrictions or adverse policies will not be imposed. Risks related to our common stock Our common stock has been delisted from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on March 11, 2002. As a result, our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may reduce the already thin trading market of our common stock. In addition, the delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may significantly impair our ability to raise additional funds to operate our business. Risks related to past due fiscal obligations of VENDEX • Past due fiscal obligations of VENDEX. We purchased Venbo Comércio de Alimentos Ltda. (“Venbo”) from VENDEX in 1996. At that moment, a due diligence was conducted to evaluate Venbo’s debt, other liabilities and assets. The agreement signed by both VENDEX and Brazil Fast Food Corp. determined that VENDEX would be responsible for any hidden liability or future liability concerning the acts of Venbo prior to the date of the purchase, limited to certain conditions. In the past years we have acknowledge the situation of Venbo’s fiscal debts prior to 1996 through the communications we received from the Brazilian fiscal authorities. These communications were, as immediately as received, forward to VENDEX lawyers in Brazil. All demands in discussion seemed to be within the limits of the agreement, but, in the last months of 2004, we received some communications of tax debts which sum could exceed 10 Table of Contents the mentioned limit, representing a financial threat to the Company, since it could be included in the government’s demands. In 2005, Venbo was summoned by the fiscal authority of the State of Rio de Janeiro to pay a debt referred to the period prior to 1996. In order to have the right to appeal it was obliged to put in a pledge one of its properties. VENDEX assumed the defense but did not substituted the seizure of the asset, because of its weak current financial condition. VENDEX attorneys are defending all demands; however, we cannot predict if the outcome will result in burdensome liabilities that could hazard our financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 