Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should note that our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or when made and we undertake no duty or o bligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: We operate in highly competitive markets with low barriers to entry, and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. We operate in highly competitive and fragmented markets in both of our operating segments. There are low barriers to entry by potential competitors at the local level. We face significant competition in the markets we serve and will continue to face significant competition in any geographic markets or industry sectors that we may enter. The majority of competitors are significantly smaller than we are. However, certain of our competitors are larger, have greater marketing, technical and financial resources, and have stronger brand name recognition than we have. As a result, some of our competitors may be in a better position to capitalize on new technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote more resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their service offerings. In some cases, our large competitors have lower operating cost structures and as a result, we may face i ncreased competitive pricing pressures and may not be able to obtain or retain our new or existing customers. Some of our competitors can provide broader geographic coverage than we can and this could limit our ability to service large customers who wish to consolidate services. There has been a significant increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or with a small number of providers. The trend to consolidate purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain customers. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally. Additionally, pricing pressures have intensified as customers have continued to competitively bid new contracts. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter increased competition in the future. Any further significant economic downturn could result in less demand from customers and lower revenues. Because demand for recruitment and staffing services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business suffers during economic downturns as it did in 2008. As economic activity slows, companies tend to reduce their use of temporary employees and recruitment services before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, resulting in decreased demand for our personnel. Additionally, a continued economic downturn could result in higher unemployment claims and costs in future periods. Also, as businesses reduce their hiring of permanent employees, revenues from our recruitment services is adversely affected. As a result, any further significant economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A loss of customers may result in a material impact on the results of our operations. We may experience a reduction in business from a large customer or a number of customers, or we may lose such customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships with our larger customers in the future. Our customers may experience a deterioration in their current financial condition or future prospects, or may experience a bankruptcy. We are also at a risk of losses from uncollectible account receivables if our customers’ financial positions deteriorate. A significant reduction in demand from our customers may result in an adverse impact on our business and results of operations in future periods. 8 Market conditions and failure to meet certain covenant requirements could impact our availability to borrow under our revolving lines of credit and the cost of our borrowings. The global economy has entered what some economists predict may be a prolonged economic recession. We believe one aspect of this current economic environment is the limited availability of capital resources, including debt financing. The impact of the tight credit markets may include reduced liquidity. Significant increases in the cost to borrow and maintain our letters of credit, which collateralize our workers’ compensation obligations, may result if we are not able to maintain adequate borrowing arrangements. Our revolving lines of credit provide for certain affirmative and negative covenants which may limit the availability under these lines of credit based upon our ability to meet these covenants. These covenants include, but are not limited to: a fixed charge coverage ratio; limitations on capital expenditures, additional debt incurred, mergers, consolidations or sales; and transactions with subsidiaries and related parties. Failure to meet compliance with one or more of these covenants in the future could affect the amount of availability we have to borrow against and as a result, our liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. We were in compliance with the covenants within our revolving credit facilities at December 28, 2008. We may not achieve the intended effects of our business strategy. Our business strategy is based on expanding North American market share. We have implemented steps to increase our market share by concentrating in local markets with small and mid-sized customers through relationship selling, focusing on key large accounts with profitable margins, targeting new accounts by providing integrated services, and continuing to improve operating leverage by reducing corporate and field overhead. We also plan to expand market share within our Professional Services segment by providing more services to existing Staffing Services segment customers. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives with our customers, our revenues, costs and overall profitability could be negatively affected. If we are unable to execute our business strategy effectively, our productivity and cost competitiveness could be negatively affected. Our contracts contain termination provisions and pricing risks that could decrease our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Some of our customer contracts permit termination in the event our performance is not consistent with service levels specified in those contracts. Our customers’ ability to terminate contracts, as well as having many short-term contracts, creates uncertain revenue streams. Some of our contracts contain pricing provisions that allow customers to pay a set fee for our services regardless of whether our costs to perform these services exceed the amount of the set fee. Some of our contracts provide for credits to our customers if we fail to achieve specific contract standards. Some of our contracts contain re-pricing provisions that can result in reductions of our fees for performing our services. Many of our contracts provide for a billing at a set mark-up above the temporary employees pay rate. In estimating these mark-ups we use our best estimates of expected costs for federal and state unemployment, workers’ compensation or other costs. If actual costs for these items exceed our estimates, we typically cannot recover these retroactively from customers. Additionally, the actual development of workers’ compensation claims can take many years after an accident or injury develops; such development, if adverse could negatively impact the Company. Our failure or inability to perform under customer contracts could result in damage to our reputation and give rise to legal claims against us. If customers are not satisfied with our level of performance, our reputation in the industry may suffer, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Certain areas of our business require us to assume a greater level of responsibility for developing or maintaining processes on behalf of our customers. Many of these processes are critical to the operation of our customers’ businesses. Our failure or inability to complete these engagements satisfactorily could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ operations and consequently may give rise to claims against us for actual or consequential damages or otherwise damage our reputation. Any of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 9 Managing or integrating past and future acquisitions may strain our resources. We made several acquisitions in 2007 and may make additional future acquisitions to expand our service offerings, broaden our customer base or expand our geographic presence. Acquisitions involve a number of additional risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate indemnifications, the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets and the ability to successfully integrate the business. We could experience financial or other setbacks if any of the businesses that we acquired or acquire have liabilities or problems of which we are not aware. Further, we cannot assure you that any past and future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenues or earnings. As a result, the anticipated benefits from acquisitions may not be achieved. We may experience business interruptions that could have an adverse affect on our operations. We could be negatively affected by natural disasters (many of our administrative functions are located in a hurricane-prone area), fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, hardware or software malfunctions and break-downs, computer viruses or similar events. Although we have disaster recovery plans in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, this could temporarily impact our ability to pay employees, bill customers, service customers, maintain billing and payroll records reliably and pay taxes, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses, and financial condition. A prolonged outage could seriously impact our ability to service customers or hire temporary workers and could seriously threaten the organization. We are dependent upon availability of qualified personnel, and may not be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified personnel necessary to succeed. We depend upon our ability to attract qualified personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our customers or to successfully bid for new customer projects. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven professional or technical skills currently exists. We could have difficulty attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel necessary for our business to succeed. Regulatory challenges to our tax filing positions could result in additional taxes. We file tax returns with various governmental entities within the United States and Canada. The filings include returns with the Federal government, the states and numerous cities, counties and municipalities. When we prepare these tax filings, we are required to follow numerous and complex legal and technical requirements where interpretation of rules and regulations is required. We believe that we have appropriately filed our tax returns and properly reported taxable transactions, but the final tax amounts are subject to regulatory audit and interpretation. We believe we have established adequate reserves with respect to any tax liabilities that may arise in relation to these transactions should our position be successfully challenged by tax authorities, however, an unfavorable settlement could result in higher payments and additional charges to income above the amounts reserved. 10 We may lose key personnel, and therefore, our business may suffer. Our operations are dependent on the continued efforts of our officers and executive management. In addition, we are dependent on the performance and productivity of our local managers and field personnel. Our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of those key officers and members of executive management who have acquired significant experience in our industry may cause a significant disruption to our business. Moreover, the loss of our key managers and field personnel may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that continue to use our services based upon past relationships with these local managers and field personnel. The loss of such key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations, because it may result in an inability to establish and maintain customer relationships and ot herwise operate our business. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We employ and place people in the workplaces of other businesses. Attendant risks of such activity that could increase our cost of doing business include: possible claims of discrimination and harassment; errors and omissions by the personnel we place, particularly for the acts of temporary professionals (e.g., accountants, attorneys, engineers and information technology consultants); misuse or misappropriation of customer funds or proprietary information; and payment of workers’ compensation and other similar claims. Although we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, errors and omissions and employee theft, such insurance coverage may not be adequate in scope or amount to cover any such liability. A failure of any of our personnel to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce exposure to these risks could have a material effect upon us. We cannot assure that we will not experience such problems in the future. We retain all or a portion of the risk under our workers’ compensation, general liability, professional liability and employment practices liability insurance programs, and health insurance benefits programs. Changes in the estimates of these accruals are charged or credited to earnings in the period determined, and therefore a large fluctuation in any given quarter could materially adversely affect earnings in that period. We are a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are regularly involved in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Occasionally, this litigation can be material. We cannot assure you that our insurance will cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future or that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Government regulation may significantly increase our costs, including payroll-related costs and unemployment taxes. In conducting our business, we are required to pay a number of payroll and related expenses, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and medical insurance for our personnel. Unemployment insurance premiums paid by employers typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment. Workers’ compensation costs may increase in the future if states raise benefit levels and liberalize allowable claims. Attempts to increase revenue from light industrial customers may expose us to increased workers’ compensation claims and higher costs. Future earnings could be adversely affected if we are not able to increase the fees charged to customers to offset increased costs related to unemployment insurance or workers’ compensation benefits. 11 We are subject to business risks associated with operations in Canada, which could make this operation significantly more costly. Operation in this market is subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; varying economic and political conditions; overlapping or differing tax structures; and multiple regulations concerning pay rates, benefits, vacation, statutory holiday pay, workers’ compensation, union membership, termination pay and the termination of employment. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may impact our ability to comply with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing standards and result in losses for our investors. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008, the prices of our common stock as reported on the NYSE ranged from a high of $7.28 to a low of $1.12. Our stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including factors listed in these “Risk Factors” and others, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; announcement of new services by us or our competitors; announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; and changes in general economic conditions. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by: reducing the liquidity in and market price of our common stock; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; and may limit our ability to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from accessing the public capital markets. 12 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 