ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS For identification and discussion of the most significant risks applicable to the Company and its business, see Part II – Item 7 – "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" of this Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Certain information about the Company's executive officers is provided below: James P. Rogers, age 59, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Eastman Chemical Company. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer from May 2009 until January 2011. Mr. Rogers was appointed Executive Vice President of the Company and President of Eastman Division effective November 2003. Mr. Rogers joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in 2002 was also appointed Chief Operations Officer of Eastman Division. Mr. Rogers served previously as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GAF Materials Corporation ("GAF"). He also served as Executive Vice President, Finance, of International Specialty Products, Inc., which was spun off from GAF in 1997. Mark J. Costa, age 44, is Executive Vice President, Specialty Polymers, Coatings and Adhesives, and Chief Marketing Officer. Mr. Costa joined the Company in June 2006 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Marketing and was appointed Executive Vice President, Polymers Business Group Head and Chief Marketing Officer in August 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Costa was a senior partner within Monitor Group's integrated North American and global client service networks. He joined Monitor, a global management consulting firm, in 1988 and his experience included corporate and business unit strategies, asset portfolio strategies, innovation and marketing, and channel strategies across a wide range of industries, including specialty and commodity chemicals, electricity, natural gas and truck/auto m anufacturing. Mr. Costa was appointed to his current position in May 2009. Ronald C. Lindsay, age 52, is Executive Vice President, Performance Chemicals and Intermediates and Operations Support. He joined Eastman in 1980 and held a number of positions in various manufacturing and business organizations. In 2003, Mr. Lindsay was appointed Vice President and General Manager of Intermediates, in 2005 became Vice President, Performance Chemicals and Intermediates, in 2006 was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, in 2008 was appointed Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Regional Leadership, and in May 2009 was appointed Executive Vice President, Performance Polymers and Chemical Intermediates. He was appointed to his current position in January 2011. Michael H.K. Chung, age 57 is Senior Vice President and Chief International Ventures Officer. Mr. Chung joined Eastman in 1976, and since that time has held various management positions, primarily in the Company's chemicals and fibers businesses. He was appointed Vice President, Fibers International Business in 2006 and in 2009, he was appointed Vice President and Managing Director, Asia Pacific Region. Mr. Chung was appointed to his current position in January 2011. Curtis E. Espeland, age 46, is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Espeland joined Eastman in 1996, and has served in various financial management positions of increasing responsibility, including Vice President, Finance, Polymers; Vice President, Finance, Eastman Division; Vice President and Controller; Director of Corporate Planning and Forecasting; Director of Finance, Asia Pacific; and Director of Internal Auditing. He served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer from December 2002 to 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Espeland was an audit and business advisory manager with Arthur Andersen LLP in the United States, Eastern Europe, and Australia. Mr. Espeland was appointed to his current position in September 2008. Richard L. Johnson, age 61, is Senior Vice President, Fibers and Global Supply Chain. Prior to being named to this position, Mr. Johnson was Vice President and General Manager of Fibers. Mr. Johnson joined Eastman in 1971 and held numerous positions in environmental programs, operations and manufacturing until he became Superintendent of the Cellulose Esters Division in 1991. He was named Superintendent of the Acetate Tow Division in 1993, became Vice President and General Manager of Fibers in 1996, and Group Vice President of Fibers in 2002. Mr. Johnson was named Group Vice President of Performance Chemicals, Intermediates, and Fibers in 2006. Mr. Johnson was appointed to his current position in May 2009. 24 Theresa K. Lee, age 58, is Senior Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer. Ms. Lee joined Eastman as a staff attorney in 1987, and has served in various legal management positions of increasing responsibility, including Assistant General Counsel for the health, safety, and environmental legal staff, Assistant General Counsel for the corporate legal staff, and Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary. She became Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Eastman in 2000, was appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in 2002, and was appointed to her current position in January 2011. Godefroy A.F.E. Motte, age 52, is Senior Vice President, Chief Regional and Sustainability Officer. Since joining Eastman in 1985, Mr. Motte has held leadership positions in various organizations, including sales and manufacturing and in the Company's chemicals and polymers businesses. He was appointed Vice President for the Europe, Middle East, and Asia ("EMEA") region for the Chemicals Division in 2001 and for the EMEA Polymers Business Group in April 2006. Mr. Motte was appointed to his current position in January 2011. Greg W. Nelson, age 48, is Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Dr. Nelson joined Eastman in 1988 in the Research and Development organization, and served in various positions in specialty plastics technology and business organizations, including business unit manager of polymer films and coatings. In 2001, Dr. Nelson was appointed Vice President, Technology, in 2006 became Vice President, Polymers Technology, and in 2007 Vice President, Corporate Technology until appointed to his current position in August 2008. Scott V. King, age 42, is Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Since joining Eastman in 1999 as Manager, Corporate Consolidations and External Reporting, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the financial organization, and was appointed Vice President and Controller in August 2007. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. King was an audit and business advisory manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. King was appointed to his current position in September 2008. 25 