ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS For identification and discussion of the most significant risks applicable to the Company and its business, see Part II – Item 7 – "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" of this Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Certain information about the Company's executive officers is provided below: J. Brian Ferguson, age 55, is Executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Ferguson joined the Company in 1977. He was named Vice President, Industry and Federal Affairs in 1994, became Managing Director, Greater China in 1996, was named President, Eastman Chemical Asia Pacific in 1998, became President, Polymers Group in 1999, became President, Chemicals Group in 2001, and was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in 2002. Mr. Ferguson was appointed to his current position in May 2009 when James P. Rogers succeeded him as Chief Executive Officer. James P. Rogers, age 58, is Chief Executive Officer, President of Eastman Chemical Company, and is a member of the Board of Directors. He served as President and head of the Chemicals & Fibers Business Group at the time of his current appointment. Mr. Rogers was appointed Executive Vice President of the Company and President of Eastman Division effective November 2003. Mr. Rogers joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in 2002 was also appointed Chief Operations Officer of Eastman Division. Mr. Rogers served previously as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GAF Materials Corporation ("GAF"). He also served as Executive Vice President, Finance, of International Specialty Products, Inc., which was spun off from GAF in 1997. Mr. Rogers was appointed to his current position in May 2009. Mark J. Costa, age 43, is Executive Vice President, Specialty Polymers, Coatings and Adhesives, and Chief Marketing Officer. Mr. Costa joined the Company in June 2006 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Marketing and was appointed Executive Vice President, Polymers Business Group Head and Chief Marketing Officer in August 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Costa was a senior partner within Monitor Group's integrated North American and global client service networks. He joined Monitor in 1988 and his experience included corporate and business unit strategies, asset portfolio strategies, innovation and marketing, and channel strategies across a wide range of industries, including specialty and commodity chemicals, electricity, natural gas and truck/auto manufacturing. Mr. Costa was appointed to his current position in May 2009. Richard L. Johnson, age 60, is Senior Vice President, Fibers and Global Supply Chain. Prior to being named to this position, Mr. Johnson was Vice President and General Manager of Fibers. Mr. Johnson joined Eastman in 1971 and held numerous positions in environmental programs, operations and manufacturing until he became Superintendent of the Cellulose Esters Division in 1991. He was named Superintendent of the Acetate Tow Division in 1993, became Vice President and General Manager of Fibers in 1996, and Group Vice President of Fibers in 2002. Mr. Johnson was named Group Vice President of Performance Chemicals, Intermediates, and Fibers in 2006. Mr. Johnson was appointed to his current position in May 2009. Ronald C. Lindsay, age 51, is Executive Vice President, Performance Polymers and Chemical Intermediates. He joined Eastman in 1980 and held a number of positions in various manufacturing and business organizations. In 2003, Mr. Lindsay was appointed Vice President and General Manager of Intermediates, in 2005 became Vice President, Performance Chemicals, in 2006 was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, and in 2008 was appointed Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Regional Leadership. He was appointed to his current position in May 2009. Curtis E. Espeland, age 45, is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Espeland joined Eastman in 1996, and has served in various financial management positions of increasing responsibility, including Vice President, Finance, Polymers; Vice President, Finance, Eastman Division; Vice President and Controller; Director of Corporate Planning and Forecasting; Director of Finance, Asia Pacific; and Director of Internal Auditing. He served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer from December 2002 to 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Espeland was an audit and business advisory manager with Arthur Andersen LLP in the United States, Eastern Europe, and Australia. Mr. Espeland was appointed to his current position in September 2008. 24 Theresa K. Lee, age 57, is Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Ms. Lee joined Eastman as a staff attorney in 1987, and has served in various legal management positions of increasing responsibility, including Assistant General Counsel for the health, safety, and environmental legal staff, Assistant General Counsel for the corporate legal staff, and Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary. She became Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Eastman in 2000 and was appointed to her current position in 2002. Greg W. Nelson, age 47, is Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Dr. Nelson joined Eastman in 1988 in the Research and Development organization, and served in various positions in technology, including Technology Manager for the Flexible Plastics business, Vice President, Polymers Technology, and Vice President Corporate Technology from 2007 until appointed to his current position in August 2008. Norris P. Sneed, age 54, is Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Support and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Sneed joined the Company as a chemical engineer at Eastman's South Carolina Operations in 1979. He has served in various management positions of increasing responsibility, including superintendent for different manufacturing and new business development departments at Eastman's Arkansas operations, assistant to the Chief Executive Officer, managing director for Eastman's Argentina operations, Vice President of Organization Effectiveness, and Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Public Affairs. Mr. Sneed was appointed to his current position in May 2009. Scott V. King, age 41, is Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Since joining Eastman in 1999 as Manager, Corporate Consolidations and External Reporting, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the financial organization, and was appointed Vice President and Controller in August 2007. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. King was an audit and business advisory manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. King was appointed to his current position in September 2008. 25 ITEM 