ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While the Company believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. The Company’s ability to secure and maintain sufficient credit arrangements is key to its continued operations. The Company has a revolving credit facility under which the Company may borrow up to the lesser of (i) $32 million or (ii) an amount equal to the sum of 85% of the receivable borrowing base and the lesser of $16 million or a percentage of the inventory borrowing base. As of April 30, 2009, $18,746,696 was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. There was approximately $7.8 million of unused availability under the revolving credit facility as of April 30, 2009. In June 2008, the Company amended the revolving credit facility to extend the term of the agreement until September 30, 2010 from September 30, 2009 and amended certain financial covenants. The Company was in compliance with the required financial covenants as of April 30, 2009. Historically, the Company has renegotiated its financial covenants for the current fiscal year during the first quarter of that fiscal year in connection with the Company’s annual budgeting process. As of July 10, 2009, the Company is in the preliminary stages of negotiating revised financial covenants for fiscal 2010. The existing financial covenants remain in place until a new agreement has been reached. The Company is currently working with its lender to amend the financial covenants for its revolving credit facility, based upon the Company’s most recent projections for the 2010 fiscal year. At this time, it is possible that the Company would not be in compliance with an existing financial covenant for the quarter ended July 31, 2009. Therefore, if the Company is not successful in amending its financial covenants, the Company could be in violation of its revolving credit facility agreement at that time. In the event the Company was unable to amend the required financial covenants or obtain alternative financing, the Company may be unable to access lines of credit and its debt obligations could be accelerated. These events would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The Company also has a term loan with an outstanding balance of $2 million and $3 million as of April 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively with quarterly principal payments of $250,000 due each quarter through the quarter ending June 30, 2011. Borrowings under the term loan bear an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2%, which ranged from 2.41% to 6.47% during fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2008, borrowings under the term loan were at an interest rate of 6.47%. The financial crisis affecting the banking system and capital markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulations, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the Company’s ability to secure, maintain or renew sufficient credit arrangements to support its working capital requirements to continue operations. The financial crisis and global economic slowdown could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s sales and gross margins depend significantly on market demand for its customers’ products. A continued slow down in the global economy and the related decline in demand for our customers’ products in any industry has resulted in decreasing sales levels and gross margins which have negatively impacted the Company’s business, results of operations and financial conditions and this trend may continue. 9 Table of Contents The Company experiences variable operating results. The Company’s results of operations have varied and may continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including on a quarterly basis. Consequently, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results for any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: • Changes in sales mix to customers • Changes in availability and cost of components • Volume of customer orders relative to capacity • Market demand and acceptance of our customers’ products • Price erosion within the EMS marketplace • Capital equipment requirements needed to remain technologically competitive • Volatility of the global economy and financials markets The Company’s customer base is concentrated. Sales to the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 63% of net sales for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2009 and 2008. The Company’s two largest customers accounted for 27.5% and 18.2% of net sales for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2009 compared to 23.0% and 20.6% of net sales for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. Significant reduction in sales to any of the Company’s major customers or the loss of a major customer could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. If the Company cannot replace canceled or reduced orders, sales will decline, which could have a material impact on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will retain any or all of its large customers. This risk may be further complicated by pricing pressures and intense competition prevalent in our industry. There is variability in the requirements of the Company’s customers. The Company does not generally obtain long-term purchase contracts. The timing of purchase orders placed by the Company’s customers is affected by a number of factors, including variation in demand for the customers’ products, regulatory changes affecting customer industries, customer attempts to manage inventory, changes in the customers’ manufacturing strategies and customers’ technical problems or issues. Many of these factors are outside the control of the Company. If the Company cannot replace canceled or reduced orders, sales will decline, which could have a material impact on the results of operations. The Company and its customers may be unable to keep current with the industry’s technological changes. The market for the Company’s manufacturing services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing product development. The future success of the Company’s business will depend in large part upon its customers’ ability to maintain and enhance their technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Effective mid-2006, the Company’s customers were required to be in compliance with the European Standard of RoHS for all products shipped to the European marketplace. The purpose of the directive is to restrict the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment and to contribute to the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment waste. In addition, electronic component manufacturers must produce electronic components which are lead-free. The Company relies on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in the Company’s production process. Customers’ specifications may require the Company to obtain components from a single source or a small number of suppliers. The inability to utilize any such suppliers could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The Company faces intense industry competition and downward pricing pressures. The EMS industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater experience, as well as greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that competition from existing or potential competitors will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The introduction of lower priced competitive products, significant price reductions by the Company’s competitors or significant pricing pressures from its customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company has foreign operations that may pose additional risks. A substantial part of the Company’s manufacturing operations is based in Mexico. Therefore, the Company’s business and results of operations are dependent upon numerous related factors, including the stability of the Mexican economy, the political climate in Mexico and Mexico’s relations with the United States, prevailing worker wages, the legal authority of the Company to own and operate its business in Mexico, and the ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and operating management in Mexico. The Company has an operation in China. Therefore, the Company’s business and results of operations are dependent upon numerous related factors, including the stability of the China economy, the political climate in China and China’s relations with the United States, prevailing worker wages, the legal authority of the Company to own and operate its business in China, and the ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and operating management in China. The Company obtains many of its materials and components through its office in Taipei, Taiwan and, therefore, the Company’s access to these materials and components is dependent on the continued viability of its Asian suppliers. The Company may be unable to manage its growth. The Company may not effectively manage its growth and successfully integrate the management and operations of its acquisitions. Acquisitions involve significant financial and operating risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Disclosure and internal controls may not detect all errors or fraud. The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not believe that the Company’s disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. Controls can provide only reasonable assurance that the procedures will meet the control objectives. Controls are limited in their effectiveness by human error, including faulty judgments in decision-making. Further, controls can be circumvented by collusion of two or more people or by management override of controls. Because of the limitations of a cost effective control system, error and fraud may occur and not be detected. There is a risk of fluctuation of various currencies integral to the Company’s operations. The Company purchases some of its material components and funds some of its operations in foreign currencies. From time to time the currencies fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. Such fluctuations could have a measurable impact on the Company’s results of operations and performance. The impact of currency fluctuation for the year ended April 30, 2009 resulted in approximately $135,000 in income. These fluctuations are expected to continue. The Company did not utilize derivatives or hedge foreign currencies to reduce the risk of such fluctuations. 11 Table of Contents The availability of raw components may affect the Company’s operations. The Company relies on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in the Company’s production process. Certain of these components are available only from single sources or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, a customer’s specifications may require the Company to obtain components from a single source or a small number of suppliers. The loss of any such suppliers or increases in component cost could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company could operate at a cost disadvantage compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from suppliers. The Company is dependent on key personnel. The Company depends significantly on its President and Chief Executive Officer, Gary R. Fairhead, and on other executive officers. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, despite significant competition, continued growth and expansion of the Company’s EMS business will require that it attract, motivate and retain additional skilled and experienced personnel. The inability to satisfy such requirements could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to remain competitive in the future. Favorable labor relations are important to the Company. The Company currently has labor union contracts with its employees constituting approximately 45% of its workforce. Although the Company believes its labor relations are good, any labor disruptions, whether union-related or otherwise, could significantly impair the Company’s business, substantially increase the Company’s costs or otherwise have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could subject the Company to liability. The Company is subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during its manufacturing process. Any failure by the Company to comply with present or future regulations could subject it to future liabilities or the suspension of production which could have a material negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The price of the Company’s stock is volatile. The price of the Company’s common stock historically has experienced significant volatility due to fluctuations in the Company’s revenue and earnings, other factors relating to the Company’s operations, the market’s changing expectations for the Company’s growth, overall equity market conditions and other factors unrelated to the Company’s operations. In addition, the limited float of the Company’s common stock and the limited number of market makers also affect the volatility of the Company’s common stock. Such fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. Being a public company increases the Company’s administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and listing requirements subsequently adopted by Nasdaq in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. In addition, if the Company receives a qualified opinion on the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, shareholders and the Company’s lenders could lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements. This could have a material adverse impact on the value of the Company’s stock and the Company’s liquidity. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 