ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks before you decide to buy our common stock. If any one of these risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition, results and performance could be seriously harmed and/or the price of our common stock might significantly decrease. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. Technology changes rapidly in our industry and our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with these changes and meet the needs of our customers. The wireless solutions industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The fixed cellular telecommunications industry also is experiencing significant technological change. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology obsolete and unmarketable. The process of developing new technology and products is complex, uncertain and expensive, and success depends on a number of factors, including: • proper product definition; • component cost; • resolving technical hurdles; • timely completion and introduction to the market; • differentiation from the products of our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing new products and enhancements or we may experience difficulties that prevent development of products and enhancements in a timely manner. In addition, our products may fail to meet the needs of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Any of these circumstances would seriously harm our results and financial condition. 9 Our results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products and to reduce the costs to produce existing products. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict the changing needs of our customers and emerging technological trends, our results and financial condition may suffer. We must commit significant resources, including those contracted from third parties, to develop new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others or new industry standards will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, we may not successfully execute o n new product opportunities because of technical hurdles that we or our contractors fail to overcome in a timely fashion. This could result in competitors providing a solution before we do, and loss of market share, revenues and earnings. Products from our investments in research and development of new products may not be realized for an extended period of time, if at all. Telular has made significant investments in research and development for new products, services and technologies. Significant revenue from these investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Further, we may be required to purchase licenses from third parties in connection with the development of new products and these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully introduce new products and technologies, our products may not be accepted by the market or we may be unable to sell our products at prices that are sufficient to recover our investment in developing those new products. Moreover, if these products are profitable, gross profit for these products may not be as high as the margins historically experienced for our other p roducts. We must devote substantial resources to research and development to remain competitive and we may not have the resources to do so. For us to be competitive we must continue to dedicate substantial resources to research and development of new products and enhancements of current and future products as described above. If we are unable to devote sufficient resources to fund necessary research and development or if our research and development efforts are unsuccessful, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price may decline. Unfavorable economic events including competitive pricing pressure in our target markets could lead to lower sales of our products. Telular has identified significant growth opportunities in a variety of markets, such as the machine-to-machine (M2M) market. Each of these markets will develop at a different pace, and the sales cycle for these markets is likely to be several months or quarters. Pricing for Fixed Cellular Terminals has been declining along with pricing in general for telecommunications equipment and other technology products. We believe that these pricing trends will continue in the future and perhaps accelerate, particularly if large companies with greater purchasing power enter the market or other competitors enter the market with lesser quality products or improper license rights. In addition, unfavorable general economic conditions in any market will have a negative effect on sales in that market. Because economic conditions in one region often affect conditions globally, unfavorable general economic conditions in one market or region might result in damage to industry growth and demand in other markets as well. A decline in the U.S. housing market may negatively impact sales and profitability of Telular’s Telguard products and services. Since end users oftentimes purchase security systems and associated cellular alarm communicators, such as Telguard, when they are moving into a new residence, a slowdown in the housing sector could cause purchases of Telguard products and services to slow or decline. Furthermore, if general economic conditions slow or if a recession occurs, end users may choose to eliminate the protection offered by Telguard services as consumers re-examine discretionary expenditures. We believe recent demand for our Telguard products has been driven in part by end users eliminating traditional phone lines in favor of voice-over IP connections (VoIP) and cellular telephones. If this trend does not continue, overall demand for the Telguard products could be negatively affected. 10 Similarly, the adoption rate for our TankLink and other M2M solutions often depend upon the prices at which we are able to sell our products and services relative to the potential cost savings which end users anticipate. If we are unable to continually reduce our TankLink and other M2M solution pricing, we may not experience sufficient demand for our TankLink and other M2M products and solutions. Furthermore, if customers cannot obtain financing to fund the upfront purchase of such products and services, our TankLink and other M2M sales, growth rates, and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our efforts to increase the focus of our production, marketing and sales efforts to the M2M market may not be successful. The success of our current efforts to increase our focus on the M2M market will depend on our ability to develop and market solutions that are attractive to customers and to control our costs for those solutions. We cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. We rely on third parties to manufacture our products and others to manufacture components for our products. We use subcontractors to manufacture our products and product components, such as cellular transceivers and radio modules, and to assemble our products, such as Fixed Cellular Terminals. In the past, we experienced delays in receiving subcontracted components and assembled products that resulted in delays in our ability to deliver products. We may experience similar delays in the future. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and key components when required could result in delays or reductions in product shipments and increased costs for affected parts. In addition, production capacity constraints at our subcontractors could prevent us from meeting production obligations. Delays in product deliveries for any reason or our failure to deliver products could significantly harm customer relationships and result in the loss of potential sales. Delivery delays or failures could also be subject to litigation. We rely on limited or sole sources for many of our components, and the loss of any such sources may adversely impact our business. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our components and subassemblies. As a result, some key components are purchased only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. If demand for a specific component increases, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of that component in a timely manner. In addition, if our suppliers experience financial or other difficulties, the availability of these components could be limited. It could be difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components, if we experience any interruption in the supply of components or if the cost of our components increases, our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries could be harmed, which could result in lost orders, harm to our reputation and reduced revenues. Several of our sole sourced components in existing products are at end-of-life from their manufacturers. We are attempting to source more of these components using brokers in the secondary market but expect that we may run out of these components for several of our products during fiscal 2011. While we can design replacement products with available components, we cannot assure you that we will successfully redesign these products and retain the revenue associated with the existing products which are subject to end-of-life components. We rely on cellular networks for service revenue that may be affected by the following: · service may be interrupted or limited due to carrier transmission limitations caused by atmospheric, terrain, other natural or artificial conditions adversely affecting transmission. · interruption of service due to cellular carrier equipment modification, upgrades, repairs and other similar activities. 11 · service may be limited based on available coverage. · interruption of service may occur between various cellular network and participating carriers. · the cost of this service could be increased such that it will affect our ability to compete while maintaining satisfactory margins. · carriers disclaim all liability of any nature to customers, whether direct, indirect, incidental or consequential, arising out of our customer’s use of their service. In the event that we experience significant cellular networks delays or interruption of service, we would have difficulty maintaining customers and our revenues could decline substantially and harm our business. AT&T Wireless provides the majority of our network capability. A network malfunction or a contractual dispute between us and this carrier or among this carrier and other major U.S. carriers could materially impact the operation of our services and/or our financial results. Cellular South and Numerex Inc. provide a meaningful portion of our network capability for Telguard and TankLink, respectively. A network malfunction or a contractual dispute between us and these carriers or among these carriers and other major U.S. carriers could materially impact the operation of our services and/or our financial results. ADT is a highly significant customer and the loss of this particular customer may seriously harm our business. ADT represented 38% of our total revenue in fiscal 2010. If ADT chooses to use fewer of our products and services or stops using our products and services in total, our financial results could be materially impacted. In addition, ADT influences the purchasing decisions of its authorized dealers by specifying which equipment must be installed in end user security systems. If ADT further disincentivizes its authorized dealers from purchasing our products or removes our products from its list of acceptable equipment, our financial results may be materially impacted. We have a large trade accounts receivable balance outstanding with one key customer. As of September 30, 2010, a key VAR customer had a trade accounts receivable balance outstanding of $3,800. We have executed a security agreement with the key customer but there is no guarantee that this security agreement will allow us to realize our balance due should this customer become financially distressed. We have elected to charge interest on past due balances as an alternative to exercising our rights in our security agreement. If we are unable to collect our receivables balance from this customer, or other such customers in the future, our financial results could be materially impacted. If we cannot sustain profitable operations, we may not be able to obtain the funding we need to operate our business. At times in the past years, Telular has incurred net operating losses. We incurred a net loss of $1,379 for the year ended September 30, 2008. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining profitability and our ability to continue operations depends on having adequate funds to cover our expenses. Our current operating plan provides for significant expenditures for research and development of new products, development of new markets for our products, and marketing programs for our products. At September 30, 2010, we had $27,678 in cash and cash equivalents and a working capital surplus of $34,046. In the future, we may need to utilize financing sources such as public or private sales of our equity or debt securities. We cannot assure you that if we needed additional funds we would be able to obtain them or obtain them on terms we find acceptable. If we could not obtain the necessary financing we may cut back operations, which might include the scaling back or elimination of research and development programs. 12 Our operating results may fluctuate greatly on a quarterly and annual basis, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate greatly due to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed below as well as others listed in this “Risk Factors” section: • our reliance on large volume orders from only a few customers for most of our product sales, which may result in volatility when those orders are filled and not immediately followed by comparable orders; • variations in our distribution channels; • the mix of products we sell; • general economic conditions in our target markets; • the timing of final product approvals from our customers or regulators; • the timing of orders from and shipments to major customers; • the timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies and the pricing policies of our suppliers and our competitors; • changes in the terms of our arrangements with customers and suppliers; • the availability and cost to us of the key components for our products; • ability of our customers to accurately forecast demand for our products by their end users; • delays or failures to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; • our inability to accurately forecast our manufacturing needs; • change in the financial position of our manufacturers; • an increase in product warranty returns or in our allowance for doubtful accounts; • operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failures of our order processing system; • the timing of personnel hirings; and • delays in the introduction of new or enhanced versions of our existing products or market acceptance of these products. A substantial portion of our sales in a given quarter may depend on obtaining orders for products to be manufactured and shipped in the same quarter in which those orders are received. As a result of these factors, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In this event, our stock price could decline significantly. These period-to-period fluctuations may contribute to the volatility in the price of our common stock, as described below. Our common stock price has been extremely volatile, and extreme price fluctuations could negatively affect your investment. The market price of our common stock has been extremely volatile. Since October 1, 1999, the price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $32.00 to a low of $1.00 per share. 13 Publicized events and announcements may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. For example, the occurrence of any of the following events could have the effect of temporarily or permanently driving down the price of our common stock: • shortfalls in our revenue or net income; • the results of product trials or the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the telecommunications, technology and emerging growth sectors; and • rumors related to us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market from time to time experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations that particularly affect the market prices for emerging growth and technology companies, like Telular, and which often are unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad fluctuations may negatively affect your ability to sell your shares at a price equal to or greater than the price you paid. In addition, a decrease in the price of our common stock could cause it to be delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. From time-to-time we face litigation that could significantly damage our business and financial condition. In the telecommunications equipment and other high technology industries, litigation increasingly has been used as a competitive tactic by both established companies seeking to protect their position in the market and by emerging companies attempting to gain access to the market. In this type of litigation, complaints may be filed on various grounds, such as: • antitrust; • breach of contract; • trade secret; • copyright or patent infringement; • patent or copyright invalidity; and • unfair business practices. We are currently defending ourselves against several such claims. Whether or not they have any merit, we incur substantial expense and management’s attention may be diverted from operations. This type of litigation also may cause confusion in the market and make our licensees and distributors reluctant to commit resources to our products. Any of these effects could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial condition. In particular, an adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign products that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. 14 In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Our largest customer is entitled to indemnification for such claims and has, in fact, sought such indemnification recently based on notice of infringement provided to this customer and to Telular by a party that has initiated litigation against Telular and our customer based on this infringement claim. Although our patents have been successfully defended in courts in the United States and New Zealand, rulings in such cases may not apply to new products. In the event that any of our patents or other intellectual property rights were deemed invalid or were determined not to prohibit competing technologies as a result of litigation, our competitive position may be significantly harmed. Our costs may increase if we are unable to accurately forecast our needs. Lead times for ordering components from our manufacturers vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for and availability of a component at a given time. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, we may not be able to obtain products in a timely manner. Furthermore, if we cannot produce our products in a timely manner, the liquidated damages provisions in some of our contracts with our customers may result in our selling our products at a loss. If our forecasts are too high, we and our manufacturer may be unable to use the components that were purchased based on our forecasts. The cost of the components used in our products tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and technologies mature. ;Therefore, if we are unable to use components purchased based on our forecasts, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors’. Excess components or inventory will tie up working capital and cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs, which may cause us to borrow additional funds that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Further, excess components or inventory not used or sold in a timely manner may become obsolete, causing write-offs or write-downs, which could seriously harm our results of operations. Quality control problems could harm our sales. We believe that our products currently meet high standards of quality due to quality-monitoring procedures that we have instituted. Most of our major subcontractors also have quality control procedures in place and are ISO-9001:2000 compliant. Notwithstanding the existence of these controls, our operations and our dependency on subcontractors subjects us to the risk that these controls may not be effective. Quality control failures by us or by our third-party subcontractors or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers. If we fail to provide quality products to our customers, product sales, and thereby our business, could be materially harmed. We may experience long sales cycles for our products, as a result of a variety of factors. Our sales cycle depends on the length of time required for adoption of new technologies in our target markets. In addition, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and its decision to purchase our products is relatively long. The evaluation, testing, acceptance, proposal, contract negotiation, funding and implementation process can extend over many months. Based on our limited operating history, it generally takes us between three and nine months to complete a sale to a customer. However, in certain instances the sales cycle may be substantially longer. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens in general or for one or more large orders, the timing of our revenues and results of operations could be harmed, which in turn could reduce our revenues in any quarter. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, sales cycles that are longer than we expect likely will harm our ability to generate sufficient cash to cover our working capital requirements for a given period. We operate in developing markets, which may subject us to volatile conditions not present in the United States. We target developing countries and some of our current and potential customers operate in these markets. As we expand our operations and products in these countries, our business and performance could be negatively affected by a variety of factors and conditions that businesses operating in the United States may not have to contend with, such as: 15 • foreign currency exchange fluctuations and instability of foreign currencies; • political or economic instability and volatility in particular countries or regions; • limited protection for intellectual property; • difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements applicable to our operations and products; • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including work stoppages or strikes and cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian bird flu. To date, our sales have not been negatively affected by currency fluctuations. We currently seek prepayment or letters of credit on a substantial portion of our international orders, but some international customers are granted open credit terms and we are exposed to some international credit risk. We also try to conduct all of our international transactions in U.S. dollars to minimize the effects of currency fluctuations. However, if our international operations were to grow, foreign exchange fluctuations and foreign currency inflation may pose greater risks for us and we may need to develop and implement additional strategies to manage these risks. If we are not successful in managing these risks our business and financial condition could be seriously harmed. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. Although Telular holds United States and foreign patents, core aspects of our technology are not covered by patent protection. As a result, a competitor may be able to develop technologies that are substantially similar to our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. It also is possible that a competitor may independently develop and/or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our technology. If this happens, our patents will not provide protection and our competitive position may be significantly harmed. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do get patents for new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection. Any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In some countries outside of the United States, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult. In addition, neither we nor any known competitors in the past obtained patent protection for our core intelligent interface technology in many countries, including the principal countries of Western Europe, and we and those competitors are now legally barred from obtaining patents in these countries. 16 In countries where we do not have patent protection or where patents provide little, if any, protection, we have to rely on other factors to differentiate our products from our competitors’ products. Although we believe our products are superior to those of competitors, it may be easier for competitors to sell products similar to ours in countries where we do not have meaningful patent protection. This could result in a loss of potential sales. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. We may not address successfully the problems encountered in connection with any potential future acquisitions. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. Delaware law and our charter documents may inhibit a potential takeover bid that would be beneficial to common stockholders. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation may inhibit potential acquisition bids for Telular common stock at a price greater than the market price of the common stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control of Telular or make this type of transaction more difficult. In addition, our board of directors does not need the approval of common stockholders to issue shares of preferred stock having rights that could significantly weaken the voting power of the common stockholders and, as a result, make a change of control more difficult. Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of outstanding and contemplated options and warrants may depress the price of the common stock. As of September 30, 2010, there were options granted to employees and directors to purchase 2,241,694 shares of Telular’s common stock. Options to purchase 1,530,021 of these shares were exercisable at that time. The exercise prices for the exercisable options range from $1.48 to $9.75 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $4.14. Options to purchase the remaining 711,673 shares will become exercisable over the next two years. The exercise prices for the options that are not yet exercisable have a weighted average exercise price of $3.82. 17 In connection with a credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank (“Wells”) that matured on December 31, 2002, we issued to Wells warrants to purchase 50,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $16.29 per share. These warrants have no expiration date. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to holders of common stock. It also could negatively affect the terms on which we could obtain equity financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 