ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While the Company believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to secure and maintain sufficient credit arrangements is key to its continued operations. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain or renew its credit agreements in the future. In the event the business grows rapidly, the uncertain economic climate continues or the Company considers another acquisition, additional financing resources could be necessary in the current or future fiscal years. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain equity or debt financing at acceptable terms, or at all in the future. The Company has a senior secured credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank (“Wells Fargo”), with a credit limit up to $30 million. The term of the credit facility extends through September 30, 2013, and allows the Company to choose among interest rates at which it may borrow funds. The interest rate is the prime rate plus one half percent (effectively, 3.75% at April 30, 2012) or LIBOR plus two and three quarter percent (effectively, 3.1% at April 30, 2012), which is paid monthly. The credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of the domestically located assets of the Company and requires the Company to be in compliance with several financial covenants. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants at April 30, 2012. As of April 30, 2012, there was a $16,000,000 outstanding balance and $14,000,000 of unused availability under the credit facility. Adverse changes in the economy or political conditions could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s sales and gross margins depend significantly on market demand for its customers’ products. The uncertainty in the U.S. and international economic and political environment could result in a decline in demand for our customers’ products in any industry. Further, any adverse changes in tax rates and laws affecting our customers could result in decreasing gross margins. Any of these factors could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company experiences variable operating results. The Company’s results of operations have varied and may continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including on a quarterly basis. Consequently, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results for any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Some of these factors include: • changes in sales mix to customers • changes in availability and rising component cost • volume of customer orders relative to capacity • market demand and acceptance of our customers’ products • price erosion within the EMS marketplace • capital equipment requirements needed to remain technologically competitive • volatility in the U.S. and international economic and financial markets The Company’s customer base is concentrated. Sales to the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 57% and 62% of net sales for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company’s two largest customers accounted for 21.0% and 14.0% of net sales for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2012 compared to 24.0% and 16.0% of net sales for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2011. Significant reduction in sales to any of the Company’s major customers or the loss of a major customer could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. If the Company cannot 10 Table of Contents replace canceled or reduced orders, sales will decline, which could have a material impact on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will retain any or all of its large customers. This risk may be further complicated by pricing pressures and intense competition prevalent in our industry. The Company has a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from some of its customers due to customer concentration. If any of the Company’s customers have financial difficulties, the Company could encounter delays or defaults in the payment of amounts owed. This could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Most of the Company’s customers do not commit to long-term production schedules, which makes it difficult to schedule production and achieve maximum efficiency at the Company’s manufacturing facilities and to manage inventory levels. The volume and timing of sales to the Company’s customers may vary due to: • customers’ attempts to manage their inventory • variation in demand for the Company’s customers’ products • design changes, or • acquisitions of or consolidation among customers Many of the Company’s customers do not commit to firm production schedules. The Company’s inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty can make it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity and manage inventory levels. The Company could be required to increase or decrease staffing and more closely manage other expenses in order to meet the anticipated demand of its customers. Orders from the Company’s customers could be cancelled or delivery schedules could be deferred as a result of changes in our customers’ demand, adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations, and resulting in higher inventory levels. The Company and its customers may be unable to keep current with the industry’s technological changes. The market for the Company’s manufacturing services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing product development. The future success of the Company’s business will depend in large part upon its customers’ ability to maintain and enhance their technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our customers have competitive challenges, including rapid technological changes, pricing pressure and decreasing demand from their customers, which could adversely affect their business and the Company’s. Factors affecting the industries that utilize our customers’ products could negatively impact our customers and the Company. These factors include: • increase competition among our customers and their competitors • the inability of our customers to develop and market their products • recessionary periods in our customers’ markets • the potential that our customers’ products become obsolete • our customers’ inability to react to rapidly changing technology Any such factor or a combination of factors could negatively impact our customers’ need for or ability to pay for our products, which could, in turn, affect the Company’s results of operations. Customer relationships with start-up companies present more risk. A small portion of the Company’s current customer base is comprised of start-up companies. Customer relationships with start-up companies may present heightened risk due to the lack of product history. Slow market acceptance of their products could result in demand fluctuations causing inventory levels to rise. Further, the current economic environment could make it difficult for such emerging companies to obtain additional funding. This may result in additional credit risk including, but not limited to the collection of trade account receivables and payment for their inventory. If the Company does not have adequate allowances recorded, the results of operations may be negatively affected. 11 Table of Contents The Company faces intense industry competition and downward pricing pressures. The EMS industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater experience, as well as greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than the Company. Competition from existing or potential new competitors may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The introduction of lower priced competitive products, significant price reductions by the Company’s competitors or significant pricing pressures from its customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company has foreign operations that may pose additional risks. A substantial part of the Company’s manufacturing operations is based in Mexico. Therefore, the Company’s business and results of operations are dependent upon numerous related factors, including the stability of the Mexican economy, the political climate in Mexico and Mexico’s relations with the United States, prevailing worker wages, the legal authority of the Company to own and operate its business in Mexico, and the ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and operating management in Mexico. The Company also has operations in China. Therefore, the Company’s business and results of operations are dependent upon numerous related factors, including the stability of the Chinese economy, the political climate in China and China’s relations with the United States, prevailing worker wages, the legal authority of the Company to own and operate its business in China, and the ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and operating management in China. The Company maintains an operation in Vietnam. Therefore, the Company’s business and results of operations are dependent upon numerous related factors, including the stability of the Vietnamese economy, the political climate in Vietnam and Vietnam’s relations with the United States, prevailing worker wages, the legal authority of the Company to own and operate its business in Vietnam, and the ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and operating management in Vietnam. The Company obtains many of its materials and components through its IPO in Taipei, Taiwan and, therefore, the Company’s access to these materials and components is dependent on the continued viability of its Asian suppliers. The Company may not achieve expected profitability from its acquisitions. Acquisitions involve significant financial and operating risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, including the acquisition of the Spitfire Controls in May 2012. Acquisitions involve significant risks, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company including: • Financial risks, such as (1) the payment of a purchase price that exceeds the future value that we may realize from the acquired operations and businesses; (2) an increase in the Company’s expenses and working capital requirements, which could reduce our return on invested capital; (3) potential known and unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; (4) costs associated with integrating acquired operations and business; (5) the incurrence of additional debt; (6) the financial impact of incorrectly valuing goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions, potential future impairment write-downs of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles and the amortization of other intangible assets; (7) possible adverse tax and accounting effects; and (8) the risk that the Company will spend substantial amounts 12 Table of Contents purchasing these manufacturing facilities and assume significant contractual and other obligations with no guaranteed levels of revenue or that the Company may have to close or sell acquired facilities at its costs, which may include substantial employee severance costs and asset write-offs, which may result, in our incurring significant losses. The Company must implement its management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of this integration may be further complicated by geographic distances. The integration of acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. Further there can be no assurance the integration of Spitfire’s financial statements with the Company’s statements can be completed as required for SEC mandatory filings. The Company may incur significant costs to obtain the financial information for such filings. Disclosure and internal controls may not detect all errors or fraud. The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not believe that the Company’s disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. Controls can provide only reasonable assurance that the procedures will meet the control objectives. Controls are limited in their effectiveness by human error, including faulty judgments in decision-making. Further, controls can be circumvented by collusion of two or more people or by management override of controls. Because of the limitations of a cost-effective control system, error and fraud may occur and not be detected. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock. If the Company identifies and reports a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, shareholders and the Company’s lenders could lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements. This could have a material adverse impact on the value of the Company’s stock and the Company’s liquidity. There is a risk of fluctuation of various currencies integral to the Company’s operations. The Company purchases some of its material components and funds some of its operations in foreign currencies. From time to time the currencies fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. Such fluctuations could have a measurable impact on the Company’s results of operations and performance. The impact of currency fluctuation for the year ended April 30, 2012 resulted in a currency gain of approximately $134,000. These fluctuations are expected to continue and could become material and have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company did not, and is not expected to, utilize derivatives or hedge foreign currencies to reduce the risk of such fluctuations. The availability of raw components or an increase in their price may affect the Company’s operations and profits. The Company relies on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in the Company’s production process. Certain of these components are available only from single-sources or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, a customer’s specifications may require the Company to obtain components from a single-source or a small number of suppliers. The loss of any such suppliers could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. Further, the Company could operate at a cost disadvantage compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from suppliers. The Company does not enter into long-term purchase agreements with major or single-source suppliers. The Company believes that short-term purchase orders with its suppliers provides flexibility, given that the Company’s orders are based on the changing needs of its customers. 13 Table of Contents The Company depends on management and skilled personnel. The Company depends significantly on its President and other executive officers. The Company’s employees generally are not bound by employment agreements and the Company cannot assure that it will retain its executive officers or skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, despite significant competition, continued growth and expansion of the Company’s EMS business will require that the Company attract, motivate and retain additional skilled and experienced personnel. The inability to satisfy such requirements could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to remain competitive in the future. Favorable labor relations are important to the Company. The Company currently has labor union contracts with its employees constituting approximately 51% of its workforce. Although the Company believes its labor relations are good, any labor disruptions, whether union-related or otherwise, could significantly impair the Company’s business, substantially increase the Company’s costs or otherwise have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could subject the Company to liability. The Company is subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during its manufacturing process. To date, the cost to the Company of such compliance has not had a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that violations will not occur in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Further, the Company cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of environmental legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by the Company and could have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure by the Company to comply with present or future regulations could subject it to future liabilities or the suspension of production which could have a material negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The price of the Company’s stock is volatile. The price of the Company’s common stock historically has experienced significant volatility due to fluctuations in the Company’s revenue and earnings, other factors relating to the Company’s operations, the market’s changing expectations for the Company’s growth, overall equity market conditions and other factors unrelated to the Company’s operations. In addition, the limited float of the Company’s common stock and the limited number of market makers also affect the volatility of the Company’s common stock. Such fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company pays interest on outstanding borrowings under its senior secured credit facility and certain other long-term debt obligations at interest rates that fluctuate. An adverse change in the Company’s interest rates could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and listing requirements subsequently adopted by Nasdaq in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. More recently the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will require changes to our corporate governance, compliance practices and securities disclosures. The Company expects increased costs related to these new regulations, including, but not limited to, legal, financial and accounting costs. Further the Company anticipates it will be more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These developments may result in the Company having difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified members of the board or qualified officers. Further, the costs associated with the compliance with and implementation of procedures under these laws and related rules could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 