ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We derive a significant portion of our revenue from workers’ compensation insurance premiums and net investment income, including gains and losses from sales of securities. An increasing portion of our revenue is derived from non-insurance disability and absence management services. We are subject to the challenges, risks, uncertainties and trends that affect the workers’ compensation property and casualty insurance and the disability and absence management service sectors of our economy including the following: • Workers’ compensation is a state regulated industry and therefore subject to change. Workers’ compensation is governed and regulated by state governmental agencies. We are subject to state regulation in any state in which we provide workers’ compensation products and services, now and in the future. State regulatory agencies have broad administrative power with respect to all aspects of our business, including premium rates, benefit levels, policy forms, dividend payments, capital adequacy and the amount and type of investments. Legislation covering insurance companies and the regulations adopted by state agencies are subject to change and any change may adversely affect our operations; • Workers’ compensation claims and related expenses can be volatile. The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating workers’ compensation claim and claim settlement expense may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic earnings reports. Workers’ compensation is a long-tailed property and casualty insurance line. Claims for a given year are open on average for twelve to thirteen years and it is not unusual for workers’ compensation insurers to have some claims open for thirty or more years. We have operated ACIC since 1992 and BCIC since 2005 and therefore have relatively limited experience (fifteen years), and accordingly, are subject to volatility. New medical procedures could evolve and new legal theories develop that could cause older claims to re-open and increase expense. Claim frequency and severity can be volatile. Worker’s compensation is also subject to both medical and wage inflation. The cost of medical care has increased in excess of 10% per annum in recent years and indemnity cost has increased 3% to 4% with wage increases. These changes have resulted in reduced profitability in the workers’ compensation insurance line. Inflationary increases which are not offset by improved efficiency and effectiveness in managing claims could adversely affect profitability. See further discussion under “Claim and Claim Settlement Expenses” and “Unpaid Claim and Claim Settlement Expenses” in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10-K; • Workers’ compensation pricing is cyclical. In 2006 and 2005, premium rates on our renewing policies declined an average 6.9% and 2.4%. Rates increased 0.9%, 1.4%, 9.0% and 18.5% in 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These increases came after many years of rate decreases that unfavorably affected the industry in the late 1990s. If we are unable to maintain rates or decrease our costs, our profit margin will be adversely affected. See further discussion under “Premiums in Force and Gross Premiums Earned” in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10-K; • Reinsurance for workers’ compensation . Reinsurance costs in 2006, as a percentage of gross premiums earned, were approximately the same as 2005 and increased versus 2004 and prior years. We expect that reinsurance costs will increase in the future. Higher reinsurance costs, if not recovered through increased rates from our customers, will adversely affect our profit margin. Additionally, reinsurance for workers’ compensation may not be available. See further discussion under “Premiums Ceded” in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10-K; • Acts of terrorism: While we believe that our reinsurance programs, together with the coverage provided under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, are sufficient to limit our net losses relating to potential future terrorist attacks, we can offer no assurance that our reserve for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses when they materialize will be adequate to cover losses when they materialize. It is not possible to eliminate completely our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events, and to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See further discussion under “Terrorism Reinsurance” in ITEM 1 of this Report on Form 10-K; • Profitable service revenue growth could be difficult. The national market for disability and absence management services is highly competitive and includes national, regional and local providers. We do not 11 Table of Contents have a national presence, limiting our ability to service national accounts. Any infrastructure changes to support growth in our non-insurance revenues could be expensive and diminish our earnings in the short-term; and • Other risk factors. The following additional important factors, among others, could affect our results and could cause our actual financial performance to differ materially from that expressed in any forward-looking statement contained herein: • our ability to retain renewing policies and write new business with a B++ (Good, Secure) rating from A.M. Best; • adverse rating changes form A.M. Best; • the ability of our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us; • our ability to provide our proprietary products and services to customers successfully; • our ability to obtain and retain reinsurance at a reasonable cost; • investment risk, including those of our portfolio of fixed income securities and interest rate changes; and • general economic and business conditions. This discussion of risk factors is by no means exhaustive but is designed to highlight important factors that may affect our future performance. 