Item 1A. RISK FACTORS A number of risks and uncertainties exist which could impact our future operating results. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, competition, our success in developing new products and technologies, market acceptance of new products and other factors, including those set forth below. Competition could result in lower net sales and decreased margins. We operate in highly competitive markets, some of which are highly fragmented. In addition, because a customer’s budget for the purchase of an electronic display is often part of that customer’s advertising budget, our products often compete with other forms of advertising, such as television, print media or fixed display signs. Competition could result in not only a reduction in net sales but also in the prices charged by us for our products. To remain competitive, we must be able to not only anticipate and respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance and upgrade our existing products and services to meet those needs but also continue to price our products competitively. Our competitors may develop cheaper, more efficient products, or they may be willing to charge lower prices for strategic marketing or to increase market share. Some competitors have more capital and other resources than we do and may be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. 10 Our business may suffer if we are not successful in our efforts to keep up with a rapidly changing product market. The electronic display industry is characterized by ongoing product improvement, innovations and developments in display and controller technology. Competitors could develop new or superior products to increase their share of the markets. Our future success in addressing the needs of our customers will depend in part on our ability to continue to make timely and cost-effective product improvements, innovations and developments. We enter into fixed-priced contracts on a regular basis. Almost all of the contracts we enter into to sell our products are on a fixed-price basis. If our actual costs exceed original estimates on fixed-price contracts, our profits will be reduced.Although we benefit from cost savings, we have a limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long duration of some contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors including, but not limited to, increases in the cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; unanticipated technical problems; required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform or a delay in performing their obligations. These factors could delay delivery of products, and contracts may provide for liquidated damages for late delivery. Unanticipated costs that cannot be passed on to customers or the payment of liquidated damages under fixed contracts would negatively impact our profits. Backlog may not be indicative of future revenue. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Orders normally contain cancellation provisions that permit the recovery of costs expended and a portion of the anticipated profit if a customer cancels an order. If a customer elects to cancel, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of revenues could be affected, and projects may remain in the backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over longer periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of the quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. For these reasons, backlog may not be indicative of future revenues. Our ability to conduct business outside the United States may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control, which could adversely affect net sales and profits from international sales. For fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, revenue outside the United States represented approximately 12%, 13% and 10% of our consolidated net sales, respectively. Our operations and earnings throughout the world have been and may in the future be adversely affected from time to time in varying degrees by war, political developments, foreign laws and regulations, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, restrictions, customs and tariffs, changing regulatory environments, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and adverse tax consequences. The likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect on us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. These factors may result in a decline in net sales or profitability and could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to estimate future revenue and earnings. Our quarterly revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Contracts we enter into generally stipulate customer-specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects them to many factors beyond our control. Furthermore, because significant portions of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated delay or cancellation of orders in backlog may have a significant negative impact on our quarterly operating results. Factors that could cause our operating results to vary also include new product introductions, variations in product and project mix, and delivery due date changes. Therefore, quarterly operating results may be subject to significant variations, and operating results in one quarter may not be indicative of future operating results. Our products are covered by warranties, and fulfilling these warranties could adversely affect our financial results. Unanticipated warranty and other costs for defective products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation. We provide warranties on our products generally for terms of five years or less in the case of standard products and one year or less in the case of custom orders. In addition, in response to customer needs, we regularly offer extended warranties. These warranties require us to repair or replace faulty products and meet certain performance standards, among other customary warranty provisions. Although we continually monitor our warranty claims and provide a reserve for estimated warranty issues on an on-going basis, an unanticipated claim could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. In some cases, we may be able to subrogate a claim back to a subcontractor or supplier if the subcontractor or supplier supplied the defective product or performed the service, but this may not always be possible. The need to repair or replace products with design or manufacturing defects could temporarily delay the sale of new products, reduce profits and adversely affect our reputation. Product liability claims not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims involving claims of personal injury or property damage. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage to protect us in the event of such a claim, our coverage may not be adequate to cover the cost of defense and the potential award. Also, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our reputation and reduce the demand for our products. Large contracts with significant customers represent a significant portion of our accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. We closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and have not, to date, experienced significant credit losses. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom products. We mitigate our exposure to credit risk, to some extent, by requiring deposits, payments prior to shipment, progress payments and letters of credit. However, because some of the exposure is outside of our control, unanticipated events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. 11 The amounts of our orders and net sales and our financial results will be substantially affected by whether we are awarded large contracts and the size and timing of large contracts. The amounts of our orders and net sales and our financial results will be substantially affected by whether we are awarded large contracts, primarily in the professional and major college facilities market and the outdoor advertising niche, and the amounts and timing of these contracts. Whether we are awarded large contracts and their timing and amount could also cause material fluctuations in our net sales and earnings. Awards of large contracts and their timing and amount are difficult to predict and are outside of our control. The terms and conditions of our credit facility impose restrictions on our operations, and if we default on our credit facility, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The terms and conditions of our $45 million revolving credit facility with a bank impose restrictions that limit, among other things, our ability to incur debt, merge, sell assets, make distributions and create or incur liens. The availability of the credit facility is also subject to certain covenants as explained later in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our ability to comply with the covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will achieve operating results and maintain a financial position meeting the requirements of the credit facility. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. In the event of a default, the bank could elect to declare any outstanding principal amount of the credit facility and term debt, any and all accrued interest thereon and any and all other amounts payable under the credit facility to be immediately due and payable, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of May 2, 2009, we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants of our credit facility. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in many jurisdictions, including the Middle East and China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from the personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business from these companies or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. In addition, although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Our operations in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) subject us to risks and uncertainties relating to the laws and regulations of the PRC. We have offices and make sales to customers in the PRC. Under its current leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. However, the government of the PRC may not continue to pursue such policies. Despite progress in developing its legal system, the PRC does not have a comprehensive and highly developed system of laws, particularly with respect to foreign investment activities and foreign trade. Enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and implementation and interpretation thereof may be inconsistent. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. For example, the PRC recently passed a unified enterprise income tax law, which changes and increases the income tax on foreign-owned facilities. The PRC also recently enacted new labor laws that became effective January 1, 2008 that make it more difficult and expensive for companies to make changes in their workforce. In addition, some government policies and rules are not published or communicated in local districts in a timely manner, if they are published at all, or, if they are published, they may not be followed consistently by local districts. As a result, we may inadvertently operate our business in violation of new rules and policies without having any knowledge of their existence. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. Any litigation in the PRC may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our ability to satisfy any debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. It is anticipated that borrowings from our existing credit facility and cash provided by operating activities should provide sufficient funds to finance our capital expenditures, working capital and otherwise meet operating expenses and debt service requirements as they become due. However, if additional capital is required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such capital when needed or on satisfactory terms, if at all. We may make future acquisitions, which may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our shareholders. Part of our business strategy is to make acquisitions of or investments in companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, enhance our market coverage or technical capabilities, or offer growth opportunities. We currently do not have any definitive agreements to acquire any company or business, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisition in the future. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the following: • it may be difficult to integrate the purchased company, products or technologies into our own business; • we may incur substantial unanticipated integration costs; 12 • it may be difficult, time-consuming and costly to integrate management information and accounting systems of an acquired business into our current systems; • assimilating the acquired businesses may divert significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and could disrupt our ongoing business; • we may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience; • acquisitions could result in the loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired operations; • we may have difficulty retaining or developing the acquired businesses’ customers; • acquisitions could adversely affect our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • we may fail to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits and/or the anticipated strategic benefits of the acquisitions; and • we may incur liabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of intellectual property rights or other claims, and we may not be successful in seeking indemnification for such liabilities or claims. In connection with these acquisitions or investments, we could incur debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, large and immediate write-offs, assume liabilities, or issue stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage of ownership. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is partially subject to risks of terrorist acts and, to a lesser degree, acts of war. Terrorist acts and, to a lesser degree, acts of war, may disrupt our operations as well as the operations of our customers. Such acts have created an interruption of orders and delays in orders already booked, primarily in sports facilities and destination sites. Any future terrorist activities and, to a lesser degree, acts of war, could create additional uncertainties, forcing customers to further reduce or delay their spending or cancel or delay already planned projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our common stock has at times been thinly traded, which may result in low liquidity and price volatility. The daily trading volume of our common stock has at times been relatively low. If this were to occur in the future, the liquidity and appreciation of our common stock may not meet shareholders’ expectations, and the prices at which our stock trades may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted as a result of sales by existing shareholders of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or by the perception that such sales could occur. We may fail to continue to attract, develop and retain key management and other key employees, which could negatively impact our operating results. We depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. The loss of certain members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, could negatively impact our operating results and ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success will also depend in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. We do not have employment agreements with the executive officers or other employees, but we do maintain key person life insurance on the lives of our Chairman of the Board and our Chief Executive Officer. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our products and services. We may not be able to successfully preserve our intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services have been or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. A failure to protect proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, even if we are successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or defending ourselves against a claim of infringement, any related dispute or litigation could be costly and time-consuming and divert management’s attention from business. We maintain inventory that is subject to obsolescence and write downs to the extent it is replaced through product enhancements or advances in technology. As a result of our products being subject to continuous enhancements and design changes, inventory held by us is subject to the risk of obsolescence and excess levels that may not be saleable. Losses incurred as a result could have an adverse impact on our future profits. We may not be able to utilize our capacity efficiently or accurately plan our capacity requirements, which may negatively affect our operating results. We increase our production capacity and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand. Market demand, however, has not always developed as expected or remained at a consistent level. The underutilization that can result decreases our profitability. For example, in 2007 and 2008, market demand for our products was increasing rapidly resulting in expanding our capacity. In the second half of fiscal 2009, net sales were below our expectations primarily due to a decline of orders in our Commercial and International business units. This resulted in underutilization of our manufacturing capacity. As a result, our profitability also was below our expectations. 13 The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand: • changes in the demand for and mix of products our customers buy; • our ability to add and train our manufacturing staff in advance of demand; • the market’s pace of technological change; • variability in our manufacturing productivity; and • long lead times for most of our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements. A further deterioration of our business could result in further underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, and we may need to impair certain assets in the future. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately and efficiently utilize our production capacity, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on single-source suppliers for some of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We obtain some of our raw materials, including LEDs, from a limited number of suppliers. If we cannot obtain some key raw materials from our suppliers, we cannot assure that the raw materials will be readily available from other suppliers, that other suppliers will agree to supply the materials to us on terms that are as favorable as the terms we currently receive, or that the raw materials from any other suppliers will be of adequate and consistent quality. Although we believe our supply of raw materials currently is adequate for the needs of our business, we cannot assure you that new sources of supply will be available when needed. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is located and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our internal control over financial reporting is found to be inadequate, our financial results may not be accurate, raising concerns for investors and potentially adversely affecting our stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the fiscal years ended May 2, 2009, April 26, 2008 and April 28, 2007 and will continue to do so for future periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements, and the receipt of a positive attestation, or any attestation at all, from our independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, our assessment of our internal controls may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors and therefore adversely affect our stock price. Our manufacturing would be interrupted if we were unable to use one of our manufacturing facilities. We manufacture most of our products in two locations in South Dakota and one in Minnesota. If any of these facilities were to be destroyed, shut down or unable to be used for its intended purposes, we would be limited in our capacity to meet customer demands until a replacement facility and equipment, if necessary, was found. The replacement of the manufacturing facility could take an extended amount of time before manufacturing operations could restart. The delay engendered by, and the potential cost incurred in, these steps could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The protections we have adopted may cause takeover offers to be decided by the Board rather than our shareholders. Of the 120,000,000 shares of capital stock authorized in our articles of incorporation, 5,000,000 shares are undesignated. Our Board of Directors may issue the undesignated shares on terms and with the rights, preferences and designations determined by the Board without shareholder action, which could be used to discourage takeover attempts. Our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board consisting of three classes of directors. A classified board generally makes it more difficult to replace directors and to acquire our company. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that provides for the exercise of preferred share purchase rights when a person becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock (subject to certain exceptions). In addition, we are governed by the anti-takeover provisions of the current South Dakota Business Corporation Act (“SD Act”), which may deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their common stock, which in turn have a depressive effect on the market price of the common stock. In general, shares of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition,” as defined in the SD Act, have no rights unless voting rights are approved in a prescribed manner. There are also provisions that prohibit a public South Dakota corporation from engaging in a “business combination,” as defined in the SD Act, with an “interested shareholder,” as defined in the SD Act, for a period of four years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The SD Act also limits the voting rights of shares acquired in specified types of acquisitions and restricts specified types of business combinations. The existence or issuance of "blank check" stock, the classified board, the existence of our shareholder rights plan and the effect of the anti-takeover provisions of the SD Act, individually or in the aggregate, may discourage potential takeover attempts and delay, deter or prevent a change in control. They also may make the removal of management more difficult, which could deprive our shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares at prices higher than prevailing market prices. Significant changes in the market price of our common stock could result in securities litigation claims against us. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly-traded securities of technology companies generally. The price of our common stock recently has changed significantly and is 14 likely to continue to experience significant changes in the future. In the past, securities litigation claims have been filed against certain companies following a period of decline in the market price of their publicly-traded securities. We may be the target of similar securities litigation claims in the future. Risks associated with litigation often are difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. Although we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. Future litigation, if any, may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on us. As described in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our company has been named as a defendant in two complaints filed by three plaintiffs in November 2008 in the U.S. District Court for the District of South Dakota. The complaints purport to be brought on behalf of the classes described in the complaints; allege that the defendants, including the company, materially misled the investing public as described in the complaints; and allege claims under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Related additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the merit of any claims, defending them can be time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our cash flow. Should we fail to prevail in these matters, or should any of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages, which also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our cash flow. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, and we do not know if these conditions will improve in the near future. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by the current and continuing difficult conditions and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall worldwide economy. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a worldwide economic slowdown and recession in the United States and other parts of the world. The impact, if any, that these factors might have on us and our business, is uncertain and cannot be estimated at this time. Current economic conditions have accentuated each of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and magnified their potential effect on us and our business. The difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example: • Although we believe we have sufficient liquidity under our credit agreement with a bank to run our business, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that such funds would be available or sufficient and, in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. • Recent market volatility has exerted downward pressure on our stock price, which may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital in the future. • Economic conditions could result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties or electing to limit spending because of the declining economy, which may result in decreased net sales and earnings for us. We do not know if market conditions or the state of the overall economy will improve in the near future or when improvement will occur. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 