Item 1A. RISK FACTORSA number of risks and uncertainties exist which could impact our future operating results. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, competition, our success in developing new products and technologies, market acceptance of new products and other factors, including those set forth below.We engage in a highly competitive business. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We operate in highly competitive markets, some of which are highly fragmented. We also compete against products produced in Asia and other parts of the world, including the U.S., which in some cases are of lower quality or performance and lower cost. In addition, because a customer’s budget for the purchase of an electronic display is often part of their advertising budget, our products often compete with other forms of advertising, such as television, print media or fixed display signs. Competition could result in not only a reduction in net sales but also in the prices charged by us for our products. To remain competitive, we must be able to not only anticipate and respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance our existing products and services to meet those needs, but also continue to price our products competitively. Our competitors may develop cheaper, more efficient products, or they may be willing to charge lower prices for strategic marketing or to increase market share. Some competitors have more capital and other resources and may be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, which could negatively affect our ability to compete effectively.Our results of operations can be substantially affected by whether we are awarded large contracts and the size and timing of large contracts. The amounts of our orders and net sales and our financial results will be substantially affected by whether we are awarded large contracts, primarily in the professional and major college sports facilities market, the outdoor advertising niche and for large spectaculars around the world and the amounts and timing of these contracts. When awarded large contracts, the timing and amount could cause material fluctuations in our net sales and earnings. Awards of large contracts and their timing and amount are difficult to predict and are outside of our control.Our products are covered by warranties, and fulfilling these warranties could adversely affect our financial results. Unanticipated warranty and other costs for defective products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation. We provide warranties on our products generally for terms of five years or less. In addition, in response to customer needs, we regularly offer extended warranties. These warranties require us to repair or replace faulty products and meet certain performance standards, among other customary warranty provisions. Although we continually monitor our warranty claims and provide a reserve for estimated warranty issues on an on-going basis, an unanticipated claim could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. In some cases, we may be able to subrogate a claim back to a subcontractor or supplier if the subcontractor or supplier supplied the defective product or performed 10Table of contentsthe service, but this may not always be possible. The need to repair or replace products with design or manufacturing defects could temporarily delay the sale of new products, reduce profits and adversely affect our reputation.Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly, which could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Contracts we enter into generally stipulate customer-specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects the timing of revenue recognition to many factors beyond our control. In addition, the timing and size of large contract orders and delivery may not be predictable or repeatable. Furthermore, because significant portions of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated delay or cancellation of orders in backlog may have a significant negative impact on our quarterly operating results. Factors causing our operating results to vary may include new product introductions, variations in product and project mix and delivery due date changes. Therefore, quarterly operating results may be subject to significant variations, and operating results in one quarter may not be indicative of future operating results.We enter into fixed-priced contracts on a regular basis, which could reduce our profits. The majority of our contracts we enter into to sell our products are on a fixed-price basis. If our actual costs exceed original estimates on fixed-price contracts, our profits will be reduced. Although we benefit from cost savings, we have a limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long duration of some contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors including, but not limited to, increases in the cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; unanticipated technical problems; required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform or a delay in performing their obligations. These factors could delay delivery of products, and contracts may provide for liquidated damages for late delivery. Unanticipated costs unable to be passed on to customers or the payment of liquidated damages under fixed contracts would negatively impact our profits.Backlog may not be indicative of future revenue or profitability. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Orders normally contain cancellation provisions to permit our recovery of costs expended and a portion of the anticipated profit if a customer cancels an order. If a customer elects to cancel, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of revenues could be affected, and projects may remain in the backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over longer periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays and cost changes. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of the quarterly backlog can result because the backlog may reach levels which may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. For these reasons, backlog may not be indicative of future revenues.Large contracts with significant customers represent a significant portion of our accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. We closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and have not, to date, experienced significant credit losses. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom products. We mitigate our exposure to credit risk, to some extent, by requiring deposits, payments prior to shipment, progress payments and letters of credit. However, because some of the exposure is outside of our control, unanticipated events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.General price increases or significant shortages of raw materials and components could adversely affect our operating margin. We purchase large quantities of raw materials and components, including, but not limited to, aluminum, LEDs, power supplies, circuit boards and various other electronic components. Materials comprise the largest component in our cost of goods sold. Unless, to the extent described above, we have multiple sources of supply for many of our raw materials, significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials. Further increases in the price of these raw materials and components could further increase our product costs and materially adversely affect margins. Although we attempt to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to customers, we may decide not to do so for competitive reasons. Even when our price increases are successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind the incurrence of higher costs. As of the date of this report, there were no material parts shortages in the market place impacting our business.We depend on single-source suppliers for some of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We obtain some of our raw materials, including, but not limited to, LEDs, power supplies, circuit boards and plastics, from a limited number of suppliers. If we cannot obtain key raw materials from our suppliers, the raw materials may not be readily available from other suppliers, other suppliers may not agree to supply the materials to us on terms as favorable as the terms we currently receive, or the raw materials from any other suppliers may not be of adequate and consistent quality. Although we believe our supply of raw materials currently is adequate for the needs of our business, we cannot assure that new sources of supply will be available when needed. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is located and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our business may suffer if we are not successful in our efforts to keep up with a rapidly changing product market. The electronic display industry is characterized by ongoing product improvement, innovations and developments in display and controller technology. Competitors could develop new or superior products to increase their share of the markets. Our future success in addressing the needs of our customers will depend in part on our ability to continue to understand their needs and to make timely and cost-effective product improvements, innovations and developments.11Table of contentsOur international operations are exposed to additional risk and uncertainties, including unfavorable political developments, weak foreign economies, and compliance with foreign governmental requirements, which may impact our results of operations. For fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, revenue outside the United States represented approximately 17 percent, 17 percent and 16 percent of our consolidated net sales, respectively. Our operations and earnings throughout the world have been and may in the future be adversely affected from time to time in varying degrees by war, political developments, foreign laws and regulations, regional economic uncertainty, recessions, or other economic crises, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges, political instability, restrictions, customs and tariffs, changing regulatory environments, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries (whether due to cultural, exchange rate or other factors), lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights, renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts, compliance with import/export laws, U.S. government policy and foreign tax laws with potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures. The likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect on us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. These factors may result in a decline in net sales or profitability and could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States.We may fail to continue to attract, develop and retain key management and other key employees, which could negatively impact our operating results. We depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. The loss of certain members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer or successor Chief Executive Officer, could negatively impact our operating results and ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success will also depend in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. We do not have employment agreements with the executive officers or other employees, but we do maintain key person life insurance on the lives of our Chairman of the Board and our Chief Executive Officer.We may not be able to utilize our capacity efficiently or accurately plan our capacity requirements, which may negatively affect our business and operating results. We increase our production capacity and the overhead supporting production based on anticipated market demand. Market demand, however, has not always developed as expected or remained at a consistent level. The potential underutilization risk can decrease our profitability. The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand:•Changes in the demand for and mix of products our customers buy•Our ability to add and train our manufacturing staff in advance of demand•The market’s pace of technological change•Variability in our manufacturing productivity•Long lead times for our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements.A future deterioration of our business could result in further underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, resulting in an impairment of certain assets at some point. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately and efficiently utilize our production capacity, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Regulations related to the use of conflict-free minerals may increase our costs and cause us to incur additional expenses. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability of the use by public companies in their products of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries and to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. As a result, the Securities and Exchange Commission enacted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for public companies who use these minerals in their products, which apply to us. Under the final rules, we are required to conduct due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Because our supply chain is broad-based and complex, we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. We may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures we are implementing. In addition, the new rules could reduce the number of suppliers who provide components and products containing conflict-free minerals and thus could increase the cost of the components used in manufacturing our products and the costs of our products to us. Any increased costs and expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") to make estimates and assumptions as of the dates of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include the recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion, estimated amounts for warranty costs, collectability of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts, the amount of estimated liabilities, valuation of assets acquired plus liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed in acquisitions, and 12Table of contentsvaluation of stock-based compensation. Our actual results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operation. If our internal control over financial reporting is found to be inadequate, our financial results may not be accurate, raising concerns for investors and potentially adversely affecting our stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the fiscal years ended April 27, 2013, April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011 and will continue to do so for future periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, implementing improvements, or receiving a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, our assessment of internal controls may identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters which may raise concerns for investors and therefore adversely affect our stock price.Our future results may be affected by legal compliance risks related to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws for the countries in which we operate. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. It also requires us to maintain specific record-keeping standards and adequate internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions and requirements. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in many jurisdictions, including the Middle East and the People's Republic of China ("China"). If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from companies or governmental agencies, resulting in a competitive advantage for securing business from these companies or government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses or permits, which would put us at a disadvantage. In addition, although we inform our personnel through training sessions, policies and other means such practices are illegal, we cannot assure our employees or agents will not engage in such conduct for which we may be held responsible even if we are not aware of such conduct. If our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe fines and penalties.Product liability claims not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims involving claims of personal injury or property damage. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage to protect us in the event of such a claim, our coverage may be inadequate to cover litigation and/or the potential award. Also, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our reputation and reduce the demand for our products.Our operations in China subject us to risks and uncertainties relating to China's laws and regulations. We have offices and manufacturing facilities and make sales to customers in China which encompass many different activities. Under its current leadership, the government of China has been pursuing economic reform policies, including encouraging of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. However, the government of China may not continue to pursue such policies. Despite progress in developing its legal system, China does not have a comprehensive and highly developed system of laws, particularly with respect to foreign investment activities and foreign trade. Enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and the implementation and interpretation of them may be inconsistent. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors and foreign companies with operations in China, such as ours. In addition, some government policies and rules are not published or communicated in local districts in a timely manner, if at all. If they are published, they may not be followed consistently by local districts. As a result, we may inadvertently operate our business in violation of new rules and policies without having any knowledge of their existence. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. Any litigation or other proceeding in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Furthermore, a significant portion of our business in China involves contracts with government bodies, which can significantly inhibit our ability to enforce a contract through litigation or similar means.Circumstances could arise in which our goodwill and intangible assets could become impaired, causing us to recognize substantial non-cash impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions to complement and expand our existing businesses, increase our revenues and profitability, and expand our markets. As a result of prior acquisitions, we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet as described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur substantial non-cash impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance the outcome of such reviews in the future will not result in substantial impairment charges. Impairment assessment inherently involves judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors resulting in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Although we believe the assumptions we used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. A decline in our market capitalization or in our estimated forecasted discounted cash flows could also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. A non-cash impairment charge could materially and adversely affect the net income for the reporting period in which it is recorded.13Table of contentsThe terms and conditions of our credit facility impose restrictions on our operations, and if we default on our credit facility, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The terms and conditions of our credit facilities impose restrictions limiting, among other things, our ability to incur debt, merge, sell assets, make distributions (including cash dividends) and create or incur liens. The availability of credit facilities is also subject to certain covenants as explained in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our ability to comply with the covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure we will achieve operating results and maintain a financial position meeting the requirements of the credit facility. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the facilities. In the event of a default, the bank could elect to declare any outstanding principal amount of the credit facilities and term debt, any and all accrued interest thereon and any or all other amounts payable under the credit facilities to be immediately due and payable, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of April 27, 2013, we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants of our credit facilities.Maintaining adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win some contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project, and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. Historically, we have had adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity; however, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety's sole discretion and the issuance of the letter of credit is based on the company's credit worthiness. Prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors could impair our ability to operate our business, satisfy our debt obligations, and impact our customers' and vendors' business. It is anticipated borrowings from our existing credit facilities and cash provided by operating activities should provide sufficient funds to finance our capital expenditures, working capital and otherwise meet operating expenses and debt service requirements as they become due. However, if additional capital is required, there can be no assurance we will be able to obtain such capital when needed or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, market conditions can negatively impact our clients' ability to fund their projects and can impact our vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors and may not allow them to perform their obligations to us, potentially impacting our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may make future acquisitions, which may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our shareholders. Part of our business strategy is to acquire or invest in companies, businesses, products or technologies complementing our current products, enhancing our market coverage or technical capabilities, or offer growth opportunities. We currently do not have any definitive agreements to acquire any company or business, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisition in the future. Additional risks potentially associated with acquisitions include the following:•Difficulty integrating the purchased company, products, businesses or technologies into our own business•Incurring substantial unanticipated integration costs•Difficult, time-consuming and costly to integrate management information and accounting systems of an acquired business into our current systems•Assimilating the acquired businesses may divert management attention and financial resources from our other operations, disrupting our ongoing business•Entering markets in which we have limited prior experience•Loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired entity•Retaining or developing the acquired businesses’ customers•Adversely affect our existing business relationships with suppliers •Failure to effectively analyze our return on investment•Inability to indemnify assumed liabilities for infringement of intellectual property rights or other claimsIn connection with these acquisitions or investments, we could incur debt, recognize amortization expenses related to intangible assets, recognize large and immediate write-offs, assume liabilities or issue stock diluting our current shareholders’ percentage of ownership. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain inventory subject to obsolescence and write downs to the extent it is replaced through product enhancements or advances in technology. As a result of our products being subject to continuous enhancements and design changes, inventory held by us is subject to the risk of obsolescence, and excess levels may not be salable. Losses incurred as a result could have an adverse impact on our future profits.We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights we use in our products and services. We may not be able to successfully preserve our intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services have been or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. A failure to protect proprietary 14Table of contentsinformation and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, even if we are successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or defending ourselves against a claim of infringement, any related dispute or litigation could be costly and time-consuming thereby diverting management’s attention from business.We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, time-consuming and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. As the sizes of our markets increase and our product offerings continue to evolve and become more sophisticated, we are more likely to be subject to claims our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. Given the current legal framework associated with infringement claims, any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive and could divert our management’s attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from a claim could require us to pay substantial amounts, obtain a license to continue to use the technology subject to the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms (if at all), we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis (if at all) or we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected product. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our customers’ partners for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such a claim. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our products to others. Infringement claims asserted against us or our vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We can be a party to litigation in the normal course of business. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings can and do occur. Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations or other liabilities to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurance fails to provide adequate coverage and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our manufacturing would be interrupted if we were unable to use one of our manufacturing facilities. We manufacture most of our products in two locations in South Dakota and one in Minnesota. In addition, we manufacture certain products in our China facility. If any of these facilities, or a part thereof, were to be destroyed, shut down or unable to be used for its intended purposes, we would be limited in our capacity to meet customer demands until a replacement facility and equipment, if necessary, was found. The replacement of the manufacturing facility could take an extended amount of time before manufacturing operations could restart. The delay engendered by, and the potential cost incurred in, these steps could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our data systems could fail or their security could be compromised. Our business operations depend on the reliability of sophisticated data systems. Any failure of these systems, or any breach of our systems’ security measures, could adversely affect our operations, at least until our data can be restored and/or the breaches remediated. Our common stock has at times been thinly traded, which may result in low liquidity and price volatility. The daily trading volume of our common stock has at times been relatively low. If this were to occur in the future, the liquidity and appreciation of our common stock may not meet shareholders’ expectations, and the prices at which our stock trades may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted as a result of sales by existing shareholders of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or by the perception such sales could occur.The protections we have adopted and to which we are subject may discourage takeover offers favored by our shareholders. We have adopted and are subject to several provisions of the South Dakota Business Corporation Act (SD Act) which could have the effect of discouraging takeover offers. Of the 120,000,000 shares of capital stock authorized in our articles of incorporation, 5,000,000 shares are undesignated. Our Board of Directors may issue the undesignated shares on terms and with the rights, preferences and designations determined by the Board without shareholder action, which could be used to discourage takeover attempts. Our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board consisting of three classes of directors. Our classified board generally makes it more difficult to replace directors and to acquire our company. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan providing for the exercise of preferred share purchase rights when a person becomes the beneficial owner of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock (subject to certain exceptions). In addition, we are governed by the anti-takeover provisions of the current SD Act, which may deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their common stock, which in turn have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. In general, shares of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition,” as defined in the SD Act, have no voting rights unless voting rights are approved in a prescribed manner. There are also provisions prohibiting a public South Dakota corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder,” as defined in the SD Act, for a period of four years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The SD Act also limits the voting rights of shares acquired in specified types of acquisitions and restricts specified types of business combinations. The existence or issuance of "blank check" stock, the classified Board, the existence of our shareholder rights plan and the effect of the anti-takeover provisions of 15Table of contentsthe SD Act, individually or in the aggregate, may discourage potential takeover attempts and delay, deter or prevent a change in control. They also may make the removal of management more difficult, which could deprive our shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares at prices higher than prevailing market prices.Significant changes in the market price of our common stock could result in securities litigation claims against us. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly-traded securities of technology companies generally. The price of our common stock has changed significantly in the past and is likely to continue to experience significant changes in the future. In the past, securities litigation claims have been filed against certain companies following a period of decline in the market price of their publicly-traded securities. We may be the target of similar securities litigation claims in the future. Risks associated with litigation often are difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. Although we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. Future litigation, if any, may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and the liquidity of our common stock.Our directors and executive officers have substantial influence over us and could limit the ability of our other shareholders to affect the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach serves as our Chairman of the Board. His brother, Mr. Frank Kurtenbach, served on our Board and in a part-time role within our sales organization until May 23, 2013. Mr. Reece Kurtenbach, Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach's son, serves as our Executive Vice President and is our successor Chief Executive Officer. In addition, Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach has two other children who serve as our Vice President of Human Resources and as our Vice President of Manufacturing. Together, these individuals, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 8.9 percent of our outstanding common stock as of June 3, 2013, assuming the exercise by them of all of their options that were currently exercisable or that vest within 60 days of June 3, 2013. In addition, our other executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned an additional 4.9 percent of our outstanding common stock as of June 3, 2013, assuming the exercise by them of all of their options currently exercisable or that vest within 60 days of June 3, 2013. These Kurtenbach family members and our other executive officers and directors and their affiliated entities, if acting together, thus are able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders may have interests differing from other shareholders and they may vote in a way with which other shareholders disagree, unfavorably affecting other shareholders’ interests. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership of our common stock may also have the effect of influencing the completion of a change in control not necessarily in the best interests of all of our shareholders. Our business is partially subject to risks of terrorist acts and, to a lesser degree, acts of war. Terrorist acts and, to a lesser degree, acts of war, may disrupt our operations as well as the operations of our customers. Such acts have created an interruption of orders and delays in orders already booked, primarily in sports facilities and destination sites. Any future terrorist activities and, to a lesser degree, acts of war, could create additional uncertainties, forcing customers to further reduce or delay their spending or cancel or delay already planned projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.