Risk Factors” and ” Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Risks and Uncertainties,” and those factors discussed in detail in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. PART I. Item 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business Company Background and Overview. Daktronics, Inc. was founded by Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach and Dr. Duane Sander in 1968 while they were professors of electrical engineering at South Dakota State University (“SDSU”) in Brookings, South Dakota. Our long and close relationship with SDSU and other South Dakota colleges and universities is a key factor contributing to our leadership in the industry. We have been able to experience sustained growth due in part to the capability of the local universities and colleges to provide an important source of highly educated full-time and student employees. Over the years, our products have evolved significantly, from scoreboards and matrix type displays and related software applications, to complex, integrated visual display systems that include full color video, text and graphics displays located on a local or remote network and tied together through sophisticated control systems which entertain and inform. In the mid-nineties, as light emitting diodes (LED’s) became available in red, blue and green colors with outdoor brightness, we pioneered the development of full color LED video displays capable of replicating trillions of colors thereby producing large format video systems with excellent color, brightness, energy efficiency and lifetime. Due to our foundation of developing scoring and graphics display systems, in which we were already a leader, we were able to add video capabilities so all of a customer’s large format display needs could be met in a complete, integrated system. This has proven to be a key factor in us becoming the dominant company worldwide in large electronic displays. Over the years, we have invested millions of dollars in product development to add complementary products and services, such as production services, sound systems, marketing services, maintenance and support and other revenue generating products for our customers. Business Developments. As a result of our line of LED display systems and software applications, we gained significant market share through designing and manufacturing quality products and providing technical expertise and services. Our products are in use throughout the world, as we are the world’s leader in all display product categories, according to independent research. In the sports market, our integrated video and scoring systems have been installed at many professional, collegiate and high schools facilities, particularly in North America and at international sporting events such as the Olympic games. With commercial applications, our video, digital billboard and graphics displays can be seen in major destination sites, such as Las Vegas and Times Square, along roadsides in billboard applications, in front of retail establishments and at major stock exchanges across the globe. In the transportation market, our Vanguard displays are in use in numerous jurisdictions across North America, and our customers include many state departments of transportation. One of our core growth strategies is to enter geographic markets by opening a small sales and service office that provides after-sale support to our entire product line, sales of standard products and support on large custom projects. This network of offices, which totals approximately 60 locations throughout the world, has historically been and is expected to continue to be an important growth strategy. We occasionally acquire businesses that provide access to new markets or complement our existing products. In the past five years, we have acquired a number of small companies. Although these acquisitions increased the scope of services and technology that we are able to provide, our primary growth objective is still the increase of sales through organic growth. Financial Information About Segments Our global business is in a single industry segment – the design, development, marketing and support of visual display solutions for the sports, commercial and transportation markets. Narrative Description of Business We are the world’s leading supplier of electronic scoreboards, large electronic display systems and related marketing services, digital messaging solutions, software and services for sports, commercial and transportation applications. Our continuing focus is on supporting customers with superior products, integration and services that provide dynamic, reliable and unique visual communication solutions. We offer a complete line of products, from small indoor and outdoor scoreboards and electronic displays to large multi-million dollar video display systems as well as related control, timing and sound systems and related professional services. We are recognized worldwide as a technical leader with the capabilities to design, market, manufacture, install and service complete integrated systems that display real-time data, graphics, animation and video. We are engaged in a full range of activities: marketing and sales, engineering and design, manufacturing and professional services. Each of those activities is described below. Marketing and Sales. Our products have been sold throughout the United States and in many other countries through a combination of direct sales personnel and independent resellers. In the United States and Canada, we use primarily a direct sales force for professional sports, colleges and universities, convention centers and smaller sports facilities, including high schools and transportation applications. In smaller commercial applications, we use a combination of direct sales staff and resellers. The majority of the products sold by resellers are standard catalog products. These are typically moderately priced and relatively easy to install. A limited number of models are built to inventory and available for quick delivery. We support our resellers through national and regional direct mail advertising, trade journal advertising, trade show exhibitions and our sales force support in the field. We believe that we can expand market share by expanding both our direct sales force and resellers. Our direct sales force is comprised of a network of offices located throughout the world supporting all customer types in both sales and service. In addition to supporting resellers as described above, the direct sales staff sells the entire range of our standard products and substantially all of the large video display systems. Our direct sales staff is structured in a way to maximize cross-selling opportunities across markets. Prior to the start of fiscal year 2008, we accomplished this primarily through a matrix structure where the main focus and reporting responsibilities fell into one of our three main markets. A complementary emphasis was then placed on a regional structure to create opportunities in other markets and to support efforts for the organization as a whole. Beginning in fiscal year 2008, we reorganized our business into five business units which tend to add more focus on the market, while maintaining some of the synergies that existed in the prior structure. The business units consist of commercial, live events, schools and theaters, transportation and international. We believe that customers in each area are unique in a number of ways which are conducive to this structure. For example, live events customers usually have a large variety of product tied into a system in a single location that involves much more creative production services and design. The commercial business unit relies more on needs created by large and remote networks of displays connected through various modes of communication. The transportation business unit focuses on the unique needs of governmental contractors and ties into integrated systems of traffic or people management. Finally, the schools and theaters business unit focuses on the increasing level of support and service and limited resources along with all the statistics and related software and communication needs of athletic conferences and leagues. When we target a potential customer for sales opportunities, the prospect is contacted either directly or through a reseller. Frequently, on larger sales opportunities, engineers, technicians and sales personnel jointly participate in site visits to assess site conditions, evaluate the customer’s requirements and assemble and present proposals. Proposals to prospective customers include business and technical presentations as well as product demonstrations and visits to existing installations. We also regularly host customers at our various manufacturing facilities to demonstrate product quality and delivery capability. International sales fluctuate from year to year based on the timing of large system projects. A typical term of sale for international projects includes a letter of credit or partial payment in advance. We believe that in addition to the growth we expect domestically, we will also achieve growth in the international markets. During fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 10%, 10% and 11% of our net sales, respectively, were derived from international sales. Since 2000, we have acquired or opened international office locations in Canada, China, France, the United Arab Emirates, Germany and the United Kingdom. We also are a 49% owner in a joint venture in Malaysia. Much of our marketing and sales success in the past was based on our ability to create new products and product enhancements for customers by understanding their needs and opportunities. We have developed and continue to develop this understanding through active participation in the sales cycle by engineers and various other personnel, and through attendance at trade shows, conventions and seminars and fostering a culture of teamwork throughout the organization. Engineering and Product Development. The large screen electronic display industry is characterized by ongoing product innovations and developments in technology and complementary services. To remain competitive, we must continue to anticipate and respond to changes and developments in the industry. We will continue our tradition of applying engineering resources throughout our business to help achieve more effective product development by investing approximately 4% of our net sales into product design and development. We employ engineers and technicians in the areas of mechanical and electrical design, applications engineering, software design and customer and product support. We use primarily in-house engineering to anticipate and respond rapidly to the product development needs of customers and the marketplace. We assign product managers from our engineering staff to each product or product family to assist our sales staff in training, implement product improvements and ensure that each product is designed for maximum reliability and serviceability. We also invest in new creative technologies and in companies developing new technologies. Our engineering staff consists of four product development groups – sports, video, commercial and transportation. Beginning in fiscal year 2008, these product development groups became more closely aligned with the five business units described above. The sports product development group focus is aligned with the sports and theater business unit, the video group is focused on live events and international and the commercial and transportation group is more closely aligned with the commercial transportation business units. Until fiscal year 2008, each engineering group was autonomous to allow it to focus on one product family, although the engineering groups also were closely tied with each other to facilitate sharing ideas and technology. This organizational structure positioned us for effective product development because of our concentrated focus on standardization, which reduces the amount of engineering time allocated to one-time custom design. Beginning in fiscal year 2008, with the focus on aligning each engineering group more closely with a business unit, we believe that we can still maintain the tie between the engineering groups and at the same time generate a stronger focus on customers’ needs which are unique to that business unit. Manufacturing and Technical Contracting. As a vertically integrated manufacturer of display systems, we perform most sub-assembly and substantially all final assembly of our products. We also serve as a technical contractor for customers who desire custom hardware design, installation or other technical services. Our manufacturing operations include component manufacturing and system manufacturing (metal fabrication, electronic assembly, sub-assembly and final assembly.) We augment our production capacity with the use of outside resources primarily due to capacity constraints, although we have also used outside providers when it was more cost effective. We use a modular approach for manufacturing displays. Standard product modules are designed to be used in a variety of different products. This modular approach reduces parts inventory and improves manufacturing efficiency. We inventory a limited supply of standard products. Custom projects are built according to the customer’s specifications. Product modules are designed so that a custom product may include a significant percentage of standard components to maximize reliability and ease of service. We are also taking additional action to decrease the number of projects that are considered custom in terms of the equipment, such as products sold to the billboard niche and increasing overall standardization within video products. In scheduling and manufacturing, production employees work to ensure quality and timely delivery while minimizing inventories. Our order entry, production, customer service and many other functions are also consolidated through an enterprise resource planning system to facilitate communication among employee teams throughout the entire sales, design, production and delivery process. During fiscal year 2006, we began significant expansion of our facilities and throughput to respond to the increasing customer demands for our products. Prior to that time, substantially all of our products were manufactured in our main facility in Brookings, South Dakota. During fiscal year 2007, we expanded our production facilities in Brookings and brought into service manufacturing capabilities in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and Redwood Falls, Minnesota. We also deployed a limited amount of manufacturing in China. It is expected that for the long term, the majority of our manufacturing will continue to be in Brookings, although other locations now produce a material amount of our products. During fiscal year 2007 we began reorganizing our plants to more closely align them with the five business units described above. This resulted in significant investment in replicating processes which in prior years were centralized. This was extremely important given the rapid growth of the business and the resulting unique needs of our customers in each business unit. Our goal was to align sales, marketing, engineering and manufacturing into a cohesive business unit with a focus on customers while not giving up the synergies of shared resources. Technical Contracting. We serve as a technical contractor for larger display system installations that require custom designs and innovative product solutions. The purchase of scoreboards and other state-of-the-art display systems for large installations typically involves competitive proposals. As a part of our response to a proposal request, we may suggest additional products or features to assist the prospective customer in analyzing the optimal type of display system. If requested by a customer or if necessary to help secure a bid, we will include as a part of our proposal the work necessary to prepare the site and install the display system. In such cases, we may serve as the general contractor and retain subcontractors. We are licensed in a number of domestic jurisdictions as a general contractor. Professional Services. Our professional services are essential to continued market penetration and growth. To enhance the level of service available to our customers, we provide maintenance and support services and technical contracting in all of our offices throughout the world. We plan to open other offices in the future to supplement our service capabilities. In addition, we use a network of authorized service companies to service and maintain our products. Professional services we provide in addition to technical contracting include event support, content creation, product maintenance, marketing assistance and display rentals. Our creative production staff provides a variety of services to customers, including video content, event support, control room design, on-site training (hardware and software) and continuing technical support for operators of complicated display systems. Our Daktronics Sports Marketing™ division provides customers with a complete display system, funded in part through value-added marketing services. These marketing services extend beyond the marketing potential of the equipment in the facility to other facility-related components. Typically, these services are limited to facilities that do not have in-house marketing programs and staff. Customer Service and Support. Our prompt and reliable customer service distinguishes us from our competitors. This service includes limited warranties for most of our products against failure due to defective parts or workmanship for periods generally ranging from one to five years after the first sale or installation, depending on the product or type of customer. We also provide help-desk access, parts repair and replacement and programming support for video, animation and other displays. We staff our help desk with experienced technicians who are available on-call 24 hours a day to support events and sites. Our repair center is staffed with trained technicians who promptly repair and return components that require service and we offer a component exchange program for same-day shipment of replacement parts. Our modular approach to the design and production of products enhances our ability to provide effective customer service and support. Customers can attend our training and maintenance seminars held throughout the world, including at our headquarters and can also contract for on-site training and maintenance. Beginning in fiscal year 2007, we began deploying professional and hardware support service personnel in each of our business units so that, like other areas described above, the business unit could better focus on the unique needs of its customers. We maintain a central staff to help coordinate and maximize the synergies between the service groups. General Description of Our Products and Technologies Our display technologies have changed significantly since the mid-1990s when incandescent lamps were the primary display element. Presently, LED and liquid crystal display (“LCD”) technologies are the primary display elements. The invention and availability of the blue and green LED in the mid-1990s, along with the already available red LED, allowed the introduction of full-color video displays using LEDs as the primary colors to form all other colors in the video display. The decreasing costs of LCD components along with the drive for more numerous smaller displays have led to the addition of LCD displays. Finally, driven by customer demand, we have enhanced our video display technology into mobile and modular technologies and high definition capabilities for various applications. We offer primarily LED products across our entire product line. The cost, performance and availability of various LEDs has made them the preferred display element for large displays as compared to alternatives such as incandescent and reflective technologies, most of which are obsolete or unproven. The cost effectiveness, life and performance of LCDs have made them the preferred indoor small display solution. The vast majority of displays we sell today utilize LED technology. The two principal components of many of our systems are the display and the display controller. The display controller uses computer hardware and software to process the information provided by the operator and other integrated sources and then compiles the information, graphics or animation to be presented on the display. Data can be transferred between the display controller and local or remote displays. Local connections may use wire cables, fiber optic cables, infrared links or radio links. Standard and cellular telephone connections and satellite transmissions are used to connect to remote displays. The display controller controls each of the pixels (which are the dots or picture elements that make up the image) on the display to present the message or image. Most of our display technologies rely on one or more of our software products to manage and provide content for the display. These software products range in complexity from scoring consoles, to the Venus® 1500 display control software that allows the creation, display and scheduling of dynamic text and basic graphics content on electronic displays and to the Venus® 7000 display control system that controls multi-color displays and video boards, providing the ability to create graphics and animation as well as interfacing with third-party software for content. Additionally, our VisiconnSM control software is used to display targeted messages to specific audiences and to control large networks of digital displays. Complementary software, such as our DakStats® and interfacing software, is also available and can be fully integrated into the control software. Our display systems range from small scoreboards and digit displays priced at under $1,000 to large complex display systems priced in excess of $20 million. Generally, our product sales are either custom products or standard catalog scoreboards or displays. Historically, these standard catalog sales have accounted for approximately 24% of our total annual revenues. Our custom products are customized in terms of size, configuration and installation type but are generally built using standard technology platforms. Within each product family, we produce both standard and custom displays that vary in complexity, size and resolution. The physical dimensions of a display depend on the size of the viewing area, the distance from the viewer to the display and the amount and type of information to be displayed. Generally, the light source, or pixels, are spaced farther apart for longer distance viewing. The type of the display may also depend on the location of the viewing audience. For example, arena scoreboards may have a viewing angle nearly as wide as 180 degrees, compared with roadside displays, which typically are viewed from a passing vehicle only within a narrow angle from the display. We customize our products according to the design specifications of the customer and the conditions of the environment and setting. Product Families and Technologies Our products are comprised of the following four major product families: 1. Sport and Theater Products, primarily All Sport®, Tuff Sport® and OmniSport® scoreboards, Vortek® hoists and related controllers and timing systems; 2. Video Products, primarily ProStar®, ProTour®; and ProAd® displays, and associated control systems; 3. Commercial Products, primarily Galaxy® displays and Venus® 1500 control systems; and 4. Transportation Products, primarily Vanguard® displays. Each of these product families is discussed below. Sport and Theater Products. The Sport and Theater Products family includes a full line of indoor and outdoor scoreboards, timing systems, digit displays, sound systems, statistics software, hoist systems and other related products. The indoor products range in complexity from two-digit shot clocks and small scoreboards to large, center-hung scoreboards incorporating message centers, advertising panels and hoist systems. Outdoor scoreboards range in complexity from two-digit game timers and small scoreboards to large scoring systems incorporating message centers and advertising panels. The sizes of displays can vary significantly depending on the needs of the customer, taking into account such things as viewing angles and spectator distances. We expect that Sport and Theater Products sales in the future will continue to focus on the use of LED technology due to its lower power consumption, longer life and resulting lower maintenance costs as compared to other technologies. Because most of the products within the Sport and Theater Products group have significant standardization, we have been able to make progress on our goal of delivering the highest quality products while maintaining consistent margins. We offer a variety of internally developed controllers complementing our scoreboards and displays, which vary depending on the type of sport and complexity of the system. These controllers vary in price and complexity from the All Sport® 100, which is a controller for portable scoreboards, to the All Sport® 5000, which is designed for more sophisticated scoring systems, allowing for more user-defined options. These controllers can be interfaced with the scoreboards through radio frequencies, fiber optic connections or other means. We also offer timing systems for sports events, primarily aquatics and track competitions. These timing systems include our OmniSport® 2000 timing system. The system has the capability to not only time and rank the competitors, but also to interface to event management software created by other third parties to facilitate the administration of the sporting event. As a key component of an integrated system, we market sports statistics and results software under the DakStats® trademark. The software allows entry and display of sports statistics and other information displays. It is the leading application of its type in professional, collegiate and high school baseball and other sports. Vortek® automated rigging systems complement our arena center hung scoreboard/display systems for both small and large sporting facilities. Additionally, the Vortek® hoist provides automated rigging for theater applications, primarily smaller theaters, such as in high schools and similar venues. The strengths of the Vortek® automated rigging systems include safety and ease of operation. Video Products. The Video Products family consists primarily of displays, which are comprised of a large number of pixels capable of creating various levels of video, graphics and animation and controllers, which manage the operation of the display. Video display products are based on red, green and blue LEDs arranged in various combinations to form pixels or picture elements. The electronic circuitry which controls the pixels allows for variances in the relative brightness of each LED to provide a full color spectrum, thereby displaying video images in striking, vibrant colors. We offer a wide range of video display products for different applications and budgets. Variables in typical video displays include the spacing of the pixels (pixel pitch) the brightness of the displays, the number of discrete colors that the display is able to produce (color resolution) and the viewing angle. In addition, modular design allows the product to be readily configured in custom sizes to meet each customer’s specific requirements, with no maximum to the size of display that can be built. In general, the more pixels and the more color resolution, the better the video image on the display. Our ProStar® video display systems offer specifications second to none in the industry. At the high end, the product is capable of producing 4.3 trillion colors and is available with pixel spacing as close as three millimeters. Currently, we offer a wide range of pixel spacing, ranging from three millimeter to 89 millimeter. The three-millimeter application provides the user with the greatest pixel density and shortest viewing distance, spacing and the 89-millimeter is the most cost effective for physically large displays with maximum viewing distances. In addition, the uniformity of colors across the display is important to the quality of the video image. Our unique display control circuitry along with our proprietary manufacturing and calibration procedures provide uniform colors across the display. We have adapted our ProStar® technology into our ProAd® digital advertising and information display system, the ProTour® modular display system, the ProRail® display systems and our ProPixelTM display systems. ProAd® technology uses red, green and blue LED modules configured in different height-to-width ratios to give arena and stadium facilities the ability to install long, narrower bands of displays in various locations in the facility. This application generally serves as a revenue generation source for facilities through advertising as well as a location to display information such as scoring, statistics and video. ProTour® display systems are comprised of lightweight individual modules or panels less than a square meter in size that are assembled together to form a display in a customizable height and width. These panels are focused in what we refer to as the mobile and modular application, such as touring shows and the events market. ProRail® display systems incorporate our ProAd® displays into a patented cabinet designed to serve as a replacement for the fascia of an upper deck in a stadium or arena, which in some cases improves the sight lines of the fans. ProPixel® displays serve as architectural accents and channel lettering. Our main controller for these video displays is our Venus® 7000 controller, which is built on the Windows® operating system. This high-end controller provides advanced capability for controlling large video displays. The V-Play® event management software provides facilities with integrated and sophisticated event program management capabilities with integration to video equipment. It provides instant replays, live action and overlays of information and it allows for the organization and playback of digital video and audio clips. Other video products controllers include the VisiconnSM, V-Tour® and V-Show® controllers. Each of these controllers is designed with unique features and functionality for unique market niches. Our V-Tour® design interfaces between our display systems and other systems allowing, for example, scoreboard and video systems to receive and display information from computers used for statistics, timing or scoring. These interfaces allow the display controller to send information back to a statistics system or customer computer and can automatically report continually updated sports scores and information from national wire services. Commercial Products. The key product lines in the Commercial Products family are our Galaxy® and GalaxyPro® product lines, which include various indoor and outdoor applications intended primarily as graphics and text-based displays. All of the current product offerings within the Commercial Products group use LED technologies. Galaxy® displays, available in both indoor and outdoor models, are our leading product line for commercial applications and are expected to be a key product line for growth in the future. Galaxy® displays are red, amber or full color, with pixel spacing ranging from 7.6 millimeter to 89 millimeter depending on size and viewing distance. They are used primarily as message centers to convey information and advertising to the consumers and the public. This product line has become one of our fastest growing product lines. The modular design of the product allows us to configure a display to readily meet the size requirements of each customer. Within the Galaxy® line, we offer various price points for similar sized displays of the same pixel spacing. GalaxyPro® displays are full-matrix outdoor displays capable of displaying pre-recorded video, text, graphics and animation. GalaxyPro® displays are offered in full color with pixel spacing from 20 millimeter to 34 millimeter. GalaxyPro® displays are capable of producing 68 billion colors, have excellent color uniformity across the display and are fully compatible with our Venus® 1500 display control software. The modular design of the product allows us to configure a display to readily meet the size requirements of each customer. Other product lines within the Commercial Products group include our DataTime®, DataMaster®, DataTrac™, DakTicker® and InfoNet™ displays. The DataTime® product line consists of outdoor time and temperature displays in various character sizes. The DataTime® displays feature a programmable time and temperature display and use a remote sensor for temperature data input. The DataMaster® product line consists of outdoor rate, gas price, generic counting/timing and lottery displays in various character sizes. The DataTime® products are offered in red or amber while the DataMaster® products are offered in red, amber and green. The DataMaster® product line is one of our fastest growing product lines and has very high growth potential in the petroleum market niche. The DataTrac™ product lines consist of indoor LED displays comprised of discrete characters. Each character is spaced evenly horizontally and vertically from the adjacent character. This provides the least expensive display per character for the display of text messages only. DakTicker® displays are used primarily in financial institutions for ticker displays and to display other financial information. The InfoNet™ product line includes line-oriented displays for indoor use that are available as single or multi-line units. All DataTrac™, DakTicker® and InfoNet™ products have a controller in the display that is capable of receiving a downloaded display program and then operating independently to display that program until a new program is downloaded to it. The majority of our Commercial Products group’s products utilize our proprietary Venus® 1500 display control software to control the creation of messages and graphic sequences for downloading to the display. This software is designed to be useable without any special training and it is applicable to all general advertising or message presentation applications. We also provide software that allows OEM customers (system integrators) to write their own software using the Venus® 1500 software developer’s kit to communicate to displays supplied by us. Several system integrators have implemented the Venus® 1500 protocol into their specific applications, resulting in additional display sales. Transportation Products. The Transportation Products family includes a wide range of LED-based products for road management, parking, mass transit and aviation applications. The Vanguard® family of electronic displays, which lead transportation product sales, are typically used to direct traffic and inform motorists. The Vanguard® line includes both permanently mounted and portable displays. We have also developed a software control system for these displays to help transportation agencies manage large networks of displays. Our digit and directional displays are primarily marketed under the DataMaster® name and sold for use in parking facilities. Several of the transportation products are also routinely sold into our commercial and sports markets. Most of the transportation products are designed and tested to rigorous transportation industry standards. Our personnel routinely work with standards development organizations to assist in writing standards that benefit the public and take advantage of the latest display technologies. Sources of Raw Materials We source some of our raw materials, including LEDs, from a limited number of suppliers. We do so because of the high level of quality we require. The loss of any single supplier, however, would not have a material effect on us. In addition, to reduce our inventories and enhance product quality, we limit our suppliers to those who are willing to provide components on an “as needed” basis. From time to time, we enter into pricing agreements or purchasing contracts under which we agree to purchase a minimum amount of product in exchange for guaranteed price terms over the length of the contract, which generally does not exceed one year. Intellectual Property We develop patentable technology on a continuing basis. We hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a number of patent applications pending. The patents pertain primarily to our display technologies and product features. We rely on trademarks, in addition to patents, to help establish and preserve limited proprietary protection for our products. Our trademarks are registered in the United States and several other countries. We also have numerous trademark applications pending. These trademarks are used to establish brand recognition and distinction in our various markets. Product drawings, software and other works of authorship are also subject to applicable copyright law protections. We provide software to our customers in object code to help preserve our intellectual rights. We also rely on nondisclosure and license agreements with our employees. Despite these intellectual property protections, there can be no assurance that a competitor will not copy the functions or features of our products. Seasonal Nature of the Business Our sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large product orders, such as display systems for facilities where professional and major college sports events take place and large commercial systems and networks. The seasonality of the sports market has also played a part in our sales and profit fluctuations. As a result, sales and net income in the first and second quarters of a fiscal year tend to be higher than in the third quarter of that fiscal year, followed by higher levels in the fourth quarter, leading into the first quarter of the following year. This seasonality is caused by sales related to facilities for football and other fall sports in the summer and early fall, followed by sales generally related to facilities for basketball and hockey in the fall and finally facilities for baseball and other spring and summer sports in the early to late spring. This seasonal effect is generally compounded by large product orders in the sports markets and by the effects of holidays during the third quarter. The effects of seasonality not related to holidays are generally not found in our commercial and transportation markets, although the impact of large orders in those markets can cause significant fluctuations in sales and profits. We believe that with the mix of business favoring more emphasis on outdoor advertising applications, we could see more seasonality in the commercial business unit in the future, with sales slowing in our winter months. Approximately 54% of our orders are in the sports markets, 39% percent are in the commercial market and the remaining approximately 7% are in transportation. Gross margins on large orders tend to fluctuate more than the gross margins on smaller, standard orders. Large product orders that involve competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins with greater variability in margins. Although we follow the percentage of completion method of recognizing revenues for these larger orders, we nevertheless have experienced fluctuations in operating results and expect that our future results of operations will be subject to similar fluctuations. Working Capital Items On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 18 months depending on the amount of custom work and the customer’s delivery needs. We often receive down payments or progress payments on these orders. To the extent that these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements. Customers The primary markets we serve, along with types of customers, are as follows: Markets Types of Customers Large Sports Venues Large colleges and universities, professional sports teams and facilities, Olympic games, national and international sports federations, civic arenas and convention centers and motor racing. Schools and Theaters Elementary and secondary schools, small colleges and universities, local recreation centers and theaters, primarily high school. Commercial Retailers, outdoor advertisers, hospitality providers, quick-serve restaurants, financial institutions, casinos, pari-mutuel racing and other similar businesses. Transportation State and local departments of transportation, airlines, airports and related industries, parking facilities and transit authorities. We have a large and diverse customer base. As a result, the loss of a major customer would not have an adverse impact on us. One customer accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue in fiscal year 2007. Backlog Our backlog consists of customer sales agreements or purchase orders that we expect to fill within the next 24 months and was approximately $127 million as of April 28, 2007 and $93 million as of April 29, 2006. Because sales agreements and purchase orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by customers with a limited or no penalty, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income. Although orders for many of our products may be shipped within 90 days, other orders may take longer depending on the customer’s project schedule or other factors. Government and Other Regulation In the United States and other countries, various laws and regulations, including zoning ordinances, restrict the installation of outdoor signs and displays, particularly in the commercial market. These laws and regulations include those that impose greater restrictions on electronic displays due to alleged concerns over aesthetics or driver safety if a display is located near a road or highway. These factors may prevent or inhibit us from selling products to some prospective customers. Some of our products are tested to safety standards developed by Underwriters Laboratories® in the United States, as well as similar standards in other countries. We design and produce our products in accordance with these standards. Our printed circuit board manufacturing operations use certain chemical processes that are subject to various environmental rules and regulations. Our manufacturing operations must also meet various safety related rules and regulations. We believe we are in compliance with all applicable governmental laws and regulations. In some countries we operate in, including primarily China, there are various laws and regulations that restrict or limit our ability to withdraw our capital investment. Competition The large electronic display industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition from a variety of sources. There are a number of established manufacturers of competing products who may have greater market penetration in certain market niches or greater financial, marketing and other resources. Competitors might also attempt to copy our products or product features. Because a customer’s budget for the purchase of a large screen electronic display is often part of that customer’s advertising budget, we may also compete with other forms of advertising, such as television, print media or fixed display signs. Many of our competitors compete in only one or a few of the market niches or product categories we serve. There are generally more competitors in markets that require less complicated display systems, such as the high school scoreboard market and the text and graphics display markets, including displays in banks and small retail stores. As the needs of customers increase and the display systems become more complex, there are generally fewer competitors. However, due to the high profile nature of larger complex display systems, the competition may be more intense. Over the past five years, we have experienced significant changes in our competitive landscape and expect that more changes could occur in the future. These changes included consolidation of competitors, unsustainable pricing pressures from competitors and various other factors. Although these changes have an impact on the market as a whole, we are confident that we can continue to grow and expand our business because of our experience and approach to the market. We compete based on our broad range of products and features, complementary services, advanced technology, prompt delivery and reliable and readily available customer service and support. We also strive to provide cost-effective products and solutions for our customers. Contrary to our focus on technologically advanced products and customer support, some of our competitors compete in some markets by providing lower-cost display systems, which are of a lesser quality with lower product performance or less customer support. If a customer focuses principally on price, we are less likely to obtain the sale. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance our existing products, introduce new products and product features and provide customers with cost effective solutions to their display needs. Research and Development We believe our engineering capability and experience are unparalleled among our competitors and that our product development capability will continue to be a very important factor in our market position. Product development expenses for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately $15.6 million, $11.2 million and $10.5 million, respectively. Environmental Concerns We believe that we do not have any environmental issues that would materially affect capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position in the marketplace. Employees As of April 28, 2007, we employed approximately 2,300 full-time employees and approximately 900 part-time and temporary employees. Of these employees, approximately 1,200 were in manufacturing, 1,300 were in sales, marketing and customer service, 400 were in engineering and 300 were in administration. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe employee relations are good. Financial Information About Geographic Areas See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial data pertaining to our geographic operations. Available Information We make available, free of charge, on or through our website (http://investor.daktronics.com), our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC.”) The reports are also available through a link to the Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Information contained on our website or linked through it is not part of this report. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth information regarding our officers and directors as of June 23, 2007: NAME AGE POSITION Aelred J. Kurtenbach 73 Chairman of the Board James B. Morgan 60 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director William R. Retterath 46 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Reece A. Kurtenbach 42 Vice President, Live Events Bradley T. Wiemann 44 Vice President, Commercial and Transportation Aelred J. Kurtenbach, Ph.D. is a co-founder of the Company and has served as a Director and Chairman of the Board since its incorporation. He also served as President of the Company from 1969 until 1999, Chief Executive Officer from 1999 until 2001 and Treasurer from 1972 until 1993. Dr. Kurtenbach holds B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, the University of Nebraska and Purdue University, respectively. James B. Morgan joined the Company in 1969 as a part-time engineer while earning his M.S. degree in electrical engineering from South Dakota State University. Mr. Morgan became our President and Chief Operating Officer in 1999 and Chief Executive Officer in 2001. He served as its Vice President, Engineering, from 1976 to 1999 with responsibility for product development, contract design, project management and corporate information systems. Mr. Morgan has also served as a Director of the Company since 1984. William R. Retterath joined the Company in 2001 as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. During 2001, before joining the Company, Mr. Retterath served as the Chief Financial Officer of MQSoftware, Inc. and from 1999 through 2000, he was a Vice President of Finance for Computer Associates, Inc. through its acquisition of Sterling Software Inc. Prior to that time, Mr. Retterath served as the Chief Financial Officer for various public and private companies and worked for a number of years with Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Retterath holds a B.S. in accounting from the University of Minnesota. Reece A. Kurtenbach joined the Company in 1991 as an applications engineer on large display projects. In 1994, he became the manager of what is today our video products engineering group and, in 2004, was appointed Vice President, Video Systems. In 2007, he was named Vice President, Live Events and International business units. Mr. Kurtenbach received a B.S. degree from South Dakota State University in electrical engineering, with minors in math and computer science. Mr. Kurtenbach is the son of Aelred Kurtenbach. Bradley T. Wiemann joined the Company in 1993 as an engineer focusing in our commercial and transportation products after spending a number of years with Rockwell International, where he was involved in flight control systems. In 2004, he was appointed Vice President, Commercial and Transportation Markets of the Company, which is an area where he has provided leadership for a number of years and in 2007 was named Vice President, Commercial and Transportation business units. Mr. Wiemann holds an M.S. degree in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Iowa and a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from South Dakota State University. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS A number of risks and uncertainties exist which could impact our future operating results. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, competition, our success in developing new products and technologies, market acceptance of new products and other factors, including those set forth below. Competition could result in lower sales and decreased margins. We operate in highly competitive markets that, in certain portions of the business, are highly fragmented. In addition, because a customer’s budget for the purchase of an electronic display is often part of that customer’s advertising budget, our products often compete with other forms of advertising, such as television, print media or fixed display signs. Competition could result in not only a reduction in net sales but also in the prices charged by us for our products. To remain competitive, we must be able to not only anticipate and respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance and upgrade our existing products and services to meet those needs but also continue to price our products competitively. Our competitors may develop cheaper, more efficient products or may be willing to charge lower prices for strategic marketing or to increase market share. Some competitors have more capital and other resources than we do and may be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. Our business may suffer if we are not successful in our efforts to keep up with a rapidly changing product market. The electronic display industry is characterized by ongoing product improvement, innovations and developments in display and controller technology. Competitors could develop new or superior products to increase their share of the markets. Our future success in addressing the needs of our customers will depend in part on our ability to continue to make timely and cost-effective product improvements, innovations and developments. We enter into fixed-priced contracts on a regular basis. If our actual costs exceed original estimates on fixed-price contracts, our profits will be reduced. The majority of contracts we enter into are on a fixed-price basis. Although we benefit from cost savings, we have a limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long duration of some contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors including, but not limited to, increases in the cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; unanticipated technical problems; required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform or a delay in performing their obligations. These factors could delay delivery of products and contracts may provide for liquidated damages for late delivery. Unanticipated costs that cannot be passed on to customers or the payment of liquidated damages under fixed contracts would negatively impact our profits. Backlog may not be indicative of future revenue. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Orders normally contain cancellation provisions that permit the recovery of costs expended and a portion of the anticipated profit if a customer cancels an order. If a customer elects to cancel, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of revenues could be affected and projects may remain in the backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over longer periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of the quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. For these reasons, backlog may not be indicative of future revenues. Our ability to conduct business outside the United States may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control which could adversely affect net sales and profits from international sales. For fiscal year 2006, revenue outside the United States represented approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales. Our operations and earnings throughout the world have been and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degrees by war, political developments, foreign laws and regulations, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, restrictions, customs and tariffs, changing regulatory environments, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and adverse tax consequences. The likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect on us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. These factors may result in a decline in net sales or profitability and could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States. Our financial performance may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to estimate future revenue. Our quarterly revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Contracts we enter into generally stipulate customer-specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects them to many factors beyond our control. Furthermore, because significant portions of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated delay or cancellation of orders in backlog may have a significant negative impact on our quarterly operating results. Therefore, quarterly operating results may be subject to significant variations and operating performance in one quarter may not be indicative of future performance. Our products are covered by warranties. Unanticipated warranty and other costs for defective products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation. We provide warranties on our products generally for terms of five years or less in the case of standard products and one year or less in the case of custom orders. In addition, in response to customer needs, we regularly offer extended warranties. These warranties require us to repair or replace faulty products and meet certain performance standards, among other customary warranty provisions. Although we continually monitor our warranty claims and provide a reserve for estimated warranty issues on an on-going basis, an unanticipated claim could have a material adverse impact on operations. In some cases, we may be able to subrogate a claim back to a subcontractor or supplier if the subcontractor or supplier supplied the defective product or performed the service, but this may not always be possible. The need to repair or replace products with design or manufacturing defects could temporarily delay the sale of new products, reduce profits and adversely affect our reputation. Product liability claims not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims involving claims of personal injury or property damage. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage to protect us in the event of such a claim, our coverage may not be adequate to cover the cost of defense and the potential award. Also, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our reputation and reduce the demand for our products. Large contracts with significant customers represent a significant portion of our accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. We closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and have not, to date, experienced significant credit losses. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom products. We mitigate our exposure to credit risk, to some extent, by requiring deposits, payments prior to shipment, progress payments and letters of credit. However, because some of the exposure is outside of our control, unanticipated events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The amounts of our orders and net sales and our financial results will be substantially affected by whether we are awarded large contracts and the size and timing of large contracts. The amounts of our orders and net sales and our financial results will be substantially affected by whether we are awarded large contracts, primarily in the professional and major college facilities market and the outdoor advertising niche, and the amounts and timing of these contracts. Whether we are awarded large contracts and their timing and amount could also cause material fluctuations in our net sales and earnings. Awards of large contracts and their timing and amount are difficult to predict and are outside of our control. The terms and conditions of our credit facility impose restrictions on our operations and we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed. The terms and conditions of our $45 million revolving credit facility impose restrictions that limit, among other things, our ability to incur debt, merge, sell assets, make distributions and create or incur liens. The availability of the credit facility is also subject to certain covenants as explained later in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our ability to comply with the covenants may be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure that we will achieve operating results meeting the requirements of the credit facility. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. In the event of a default, the bank could elect to declare any outstanding principal amount of the credit facility and term debt, any and all accrued interest thereon and any and all other amounts payable under the credit facility, to be immediately due and payable. As of April 28, 2007, we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants of our credit facility. Our ability to satisfy any debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. It is anticipated that borrowings from the existing credit facility and cash provided by operating activities should provide sufficient funds to finance capital expenditures, working capital and otherwise meet operating expenses and debt service requirements as they become due. However, if additional capital is required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such capital when needed or on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our business is partially subject to risks of terrorist acts and, to a lesser degree, acts of war. Terrorist acts and, to a lesser degree, acts of war may disrupt our operations as well as the operations of our customers. Such acts have created an interruption of orders and delays in orders already booked primarily in sports facilities and destination sites. Any future terrorist activities and, to a lesser degree, acts of war, could create additional uncertainties forcing customers to further reduce or delay their spending or cancel or delay already planned projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our common stock has at times been thinly traded, which may result in low liquidity and price volatility. The daily trading volume of our common stock has at times been relatively low. If this were to occur in the future, the liquidity and appreciation of our common stock may not meet shareholders’ expectations and the prices at which it trades may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted as a result of sales by existing shareholders of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or by the perception that such sales could occur. We may fail to continue to attract, develop and retain key management and other key employees, including technical engineering talent, which could negatively impact our operating results. We depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. The loss of certain members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, could negatively impact our operating results and ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success will also depend in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. We do not have employment agreements with the executive officers or other employees, but we do maintain key person life insurance on the lives of our Chairman of the Board and our Chief Executive Officer. Provisions in our charter documents and under South Dakota law and our shareholder rights agreement might deter acquisition bids for us. There are provisions in our charter and other provisions under South Dakota law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board consisting of three classes of directors. A classified board generally makes it more difficult to replace directors and to acquire our company. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of the current South Dakota Business Corporation Act (“SD Act”), which may deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their common stock, which in turn have a depressive effect on the market price of the common stock. In general, shares of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition,” as defined in the SD Act, have no rights unless voting rights are approved in a prescribed manner. There are also provisions that prohibit a public South Dakota corporation from engaging in a “business combination,” as defined in the SD Act, with an “interested shareholder,” as defined in the SD Act, for a period of four years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights agreement designed to protect against unsolicited attempts to acquire our company. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our products and services. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services have been or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. A failure to protect proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, even if we are successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or defending ourselves against a claim of infringement, any related dispute or litigation could be costly and time-consuming. We maintain inventory that is subject to obsolescence and write downs to the extent it is replaced through product enhancements or advances in technology. As a result of our products being subject to continuous enhancements and design changes, inventory held by us is subject to the risk of obsolescence and excess levels that may not be saleable. Losses incurred as a result could have a material impact on our future profits. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 