ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We derive a significant portion of our revenue from workers’ compensation insurance premiums and net investment income, including gains and losses from sales of securities. An increasing portion of our revenue is derived from non-insurance disability and absence management services. We are subject to the challenges, risks, uncertainties and trends that affect the workers’ compensation property and casualty insurance and the disability and absence management services sectors of our economy including the following: • Workers’ compensation is a state regulated industry and therefore subject to change. Workers’ compensation is governed and regulated by state governmental agencies. We are subject to state regulation in any state in which we provide workers’ compensation products and services, now and in the future. State regulatory agencies have broad administrative power with respect to all aspects of our business, including premium rates, benefit levels, policy forms, dividend payments, capital adequacy and the amount and type of investments. Legislation covering insurance companies and the regulations adopted by state agencies are subject to change and any change may adversely affect our operations; • Workers’ compensation claims and related expenses can be volatile. Workers’ compensation is a long-tailed property and casualty insurance line. Claims for a given year are open on average for twelve to thirteen years and it is not unusual for workers’ compensation insurers to have some claims open for thirty or more years. We have operated ACIC since 1992, BCIC since 2005 and therefore have relatively limited experience (fourteen years), and accordingly, are subject to volatility. See further discussion under “Claim and Claim Settlement Expenses”; • Workers’ compensation is subject to inflationary pressures. Worker’s compensation is subject to both medical and wage inflation. The cost of medical care has increased in excess of 10% per annum in 10 Table of Contents recent years. This has resulted in reduced profitability in the workers’ compensation insurance line. New medical procedures could evolve and new legal theories develop that could cause older claims to re-open and increase expense. See further discussion under “Claim and Claim Settlement Expenses”; • Workers’ compensation pricing is cyclical. In 2005, premium rates on our renewing policies declined an average 2.4%. Rates increased 0.9%, 1.4%, 9.0% and 18.5% in 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These increases came after many years of rate decreases that unfavorably affected the industry in the late 1990’s. If we are unable to maintain rates or decrease our costs, our profit margin will be adversely affected. See further discussion under “Premiums in Force and Gross Premiums Earned”; • Reinsurance costs for workers’ compensation have increased. Reinsurance costs in 2005 increased over the prior year, continuing a pattern of cost increases beginning in 2001. These higher costs, if not recovered through increased rates from our customers, will adversely affect our profit margin. See further discussion under “Premiums Ceded”; and • Profitable service revenue growth could be difficult. The national market for disability and absence management services is highly competitive and includes national, regional and local providers. We do not have a national presence, limiting our ability to service national accounts. Any infrastructure changes to support growth in our non-insurance revenues could be expensive and diminish our earnings in the short-term. • Other risk factors. The following additional important factors, among others, could affect our results and could cause our actual financial performance to differ materially from that expressed in any forward-looking statement contained herein: (i) our ability to retain renewing policies and write new business with a B+ (Very Good, Secure) rating from A.M. Best; (ii) the ability of our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us; (iii) our ability to provide our proprietary products and services to customers successfully; (iv) our ability to manage both our existing claims and new claims in an effective manner; (v) our experience with claims frequency and severity; (vi) general economic and business conditions; (xii) our ability to obtain and retain reinsurance at a reasonable cost; and (vii) interest rate changes. 