Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition, and results of operation could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We rely on a primary distributor for a significant portion of our total revenues and the failure of this distributor to perform as expected would materially reduce our future sales and revenues. We sell our products to customers primarily through a network of distributors. Particularly, revenues derived from sales through our Japanese distributor, Tomen Electronics, accounted for 25% of our total revenues in 2008, 11 Table of Contents 37% in 2007 and 66% in 2006. Our future performance will depend, in part, on this distributor to continue to successfully market and sell our products. Furthermore, Tomen Electronics sells our products to a limited number of customers. One customer, Panasonic Communications Co., Ltd., has continually accounted for a majority of the sales through Tomen Electronics. Sales to Panasonic through Tomen Electronics generated approximately 13%, 23% and 39% of our revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss of Tomen Electronics as our distributor and our inability to obtain a satisfactory replacement in a timely manner would materially harm our sales and results of operations. Additionally, the loss of Panasonic and Tomen Electronics’ inability to thereafter effectively market our products would also materially harm our sales and results of operations. We rely significantly on revenue derived from a limited number of customers. We expect that a limited number of customers, varying in identity from period-to-period, will account for a substantial portion of our revenues in any period. Our four largest customers—Panasonic, Uniden, CCT Telecom and VTech accounted for approximately 56% of our total revenues in 2008, 58% in 2007 and 70% in 2006. In addition to Panasonic mentioned above, sales to Uniden, represented 13% of total revenues for both 2008 and 2007 and 14% for 2006. Sales to CCT Telecom represented 9%, 12% and 17% of total revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to VTech represented 21%, 10% and 0% of total revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to SunCorp represented 4%, 9% and 11% of total revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Typically, our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and none of our customers has entered into a long-term agreement requiring it to purchase our products. Moreover, we do not typically require our customers to purchase a minimum quantity of our products, and our customers can generally cancel or significantly reduce their orders on short notice without significant penalties. A significant amount of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of large customers. Furthermore, the primary customers for our products are OEMs and original design manufacturers (ODMs) in the cordless digital market. This industry is highly cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times, particularly in recent periods. These downturns are characterized by production overcapacity and reduced revenues, which at times may affect the financial stability of our customers. Therefore, the loss of one of our major customers, or reduced demand for products from, or the reduction in purchasing capability of, one of our major customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our products are components of end products, if OEMs do not incorporate our products into their end products or if the end products of our OEM customers do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate adequate sales of our products. Our products are not sold directly to the end-user; rather, they are components of end products. As a result, we rely upon OEMs to incorporate our products into their end products at the design stage. Once an OEM designs a competitor’s product into its end product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. As a result, we may incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its own product and without this “design win” it becomes significantly difficult to sell our products. Moreover, even after an OEM agrees to design our products into its end products, the design cycle is long and may be delayed due to factors beyond our control which may result in the end product incorporating our products not to reach the market until long after the initial “design win” with the OEM. From initial product design-in to volume production, many factors could impact the timing and/or amount of sales actually realized from the design-in. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the competitive position of our technology, our customers’ financial stability, and our ability to ship products according to our customers’ schedule. Moreover, the current global economic downturn may further prolong an OEM customer’s decision-making process and design cycle. Furthermore, we rely on the end products of our OEM customers that incorporate our products to achieve market acceptance. Many of our OEM customers face intense competition in their markets. If end products that incorporate our products are not accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve adequate sales volume of our products, which would have a negative effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We generate a significant amount of our total revenues from the sale of digital cordless telephony products and our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected if we do not continue to succeed in this highly competitive market or if sales within the overall cordless digital market decreases. Sales of our digital cordless telephony products comprised a majority of our total revenues for 2008. Specifically, sales of our 2.4GHz, 5.8GHz, DECT and CoIP products comprised 89% of our total revenues for 2008, 86% for 2007 and 81% for 2006. Revenues from our DECT products represented 70% and 38% of our total revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues from our 5.8GHz and 2.4GHz products represented 6% and 13%, respectively, of our total revenues for 2008 and 24% and 19%, respectively, of total revenues for 2007. We believe U.S. sales of our 2.4GHz and 5.8GHz products will decrease in 2009 with a sharper decrease in sales of our 5.8GHz products. Any adverse change in the digital cordless market or in our ability to compete and maintain our competitive position in that market would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The digital cordless telephony market is extremely competitive and is facing intensive pricing pressures, and we expect that competition and pricing pressures will only increase. Our existing and potential competitors in this market include large and emerging domestic and foreign companies, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sale and distribution resources and management expertise than we do. It is possible that we may one day be unable to respond to increased pricing competition for digital cordless telephony processors or other products through the introduction of new products or reduction of manufacturing costs. This inability to compete would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, any significant delays by us in developing, manufacturing or shipping new or enhanced products in this market also would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we believe new developments in the home residential market may adversely affect the revenues we derive from our digital cordless telephony products. For example, the rapid deployment of new communication access methods, including mobile, wireless broadband, cable and other connectivity, may reduce the market for products using fixed-line telephony. This decrease in demand would reduce our revenues derived from, and unit sales of, our digital cordless telephony products. Because our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, the price of our common stock may decline. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control, including the following: • fluctuations in volume and timing of product orders; • timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; • changes in demand for our products due to seasonal consumer buying patterns and other factors; • timing of new product introductions by us, including our DECT and CoIP products, and by our customers or competitors; • changes in the mix of products sold by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in the level of sales by our OEM customers and other vendors of end products incorporating our products; • timing and size of expenses, including expenses to develop new products and product improvements; • entry into new markets, including China, Korea and South America; • our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; 13 Table of Contents • mergers and acquisitions by us, our competitors and our existing and potential customers; and • general economic conditions, including the current severe economic downturn in the United States and worldwide, and the adverse effects on the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries. Each of the above factors is difficult to forecast and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we sell our products to OEM customers that operate in consumer markets. As a result, our revenues are affected by seasonal buying patterns of consumer products sold by our OEM customers that incorporate our products and the market acceptance of such products supplied by our OEM customers. The fourth quarter in any given year is usually the strongest quarter for sales by our OEM customers in the consumer markets, and thus, our third quarter in any given year is usually the strongest quarter for revenues as our OEM customers request increased shipments of our products in anticipation of the increased activity in the fourth quarter. By contrast, the first quarter in any given year is usually the weakest quarter for us. However, this general quarterly fluctuation may be impacted by the current global economic downturn. Specifically, the economic downturn may decrease demand for consumer electronics products, of which our chipsets are incorporated, for Christmas 2009, and therefore we can provide no assurance that the third quarter of 2009 will be the strongest quarter for revenues. We currently believe that our revenues and gross profit will decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 mainly due to the severe global economic downturn generally and the significant declines in the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries specifically. Our revenues, gross margins and profitability may be materially adversely affected by the continued decline in average selling prices of our products and other factors, including increases in assembly and testing expenses, and raw material and commodity costs. We have experienced and will continue to experience a decrease in the average selling prices of our products. Decreasing average selling prices could result in decreased revenues even if the volume of products sold increases. Decreasing average selling prices may also require us to sell our products at much lower gross margin than in the past and reduce profitability. Although we have to date been able to partially offset on an annual basis the declining average selling prices through manufacturing cost reductions by achieving a higher level of product integration and improving our yield percentages, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the anticipated, continued decline in average selling prices of our products. As an example, our gross margin for 2008 was 37.3%, as compared to 40.5% and 41% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We currently believe that our gross profit will decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 mainly due to the severe global economic downturn generally and the significant declines in the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries specifically. In addition to the continued decline in the average selling prices of our products, our gross profit may further decrease in the future due to other factors, including the roll-out of new products in any given period and the penetration of new markets which may require us to sell products at a lower margin, our failure to introduce new engineering processes and mix of products sold. Our gross margins also are affected by the product mix. For example, our gross margin decreased in 2008 due to the increased sales of DECT products with lower average gross margin on account of 5.8GHz and 2.4GHz products with higher average gross margin. We believe that U.S. sales of our 5.8GHz products will continue to decrease in 2009. We also anticipate that the shift to DECT 6.0 products in the U.S. market will continue at a fast pace in 2009. Furthermore, increases in the price of silicon wafers, increases in testing costs and increases in gold, oil and other commodities which may result in increased production costs, mainly assembly and packaging costs may result in a decrease to our gross margins. Moreover, our suppliers may pass the increase in raw materials and commodity costs onto us which would further reduce the gross margin of our products. In addition, as we are a fables company, global market trends such as “over-capacity” problems so that there is a shortage of capacity to fulfill our fabrication needs also may increase our raw material costs and thus decrease our gross margin. 14 Table of Contents Our various restructuring and cost-cutting measures, including those related to the CIPT Business acquired from NXP, could disrupt the operation of our business. Pursuant to the acquisition of the CIPT Business from NXP, we increased our headcount and established new foreign subsidiaries. In connection with the establishment of a new organizational structure for the combined company and the implementation of a unified synergy plan, we implemented a restructuring plan that mainly involved a reduction in workforce in several locations. During the third quarter of 2008, we initiated an additional restructuring plan, subsequent to our initial restructuring plan following the Acquisition, to improve operating efficiency at our various operating sites and to reduce our operating expenses for 2009. The additional restructuring plan resulted in our recognition of an expense of $1.87 million during the third quarter of 2008. Workforce reductions in connection with any restructuring activity could result in an erosion of morale, affect the focus and productivity of our remaining employees, including those directly responsible for revenue generation, and result in work stoppages, all of which in turn may adversely affect our future revenues or cause other administrative deficiencies. Additionally, reduction in workforce in EU countries may be protracted, require us to comply with complex foreign labor regulations and may entail substantial severance costs. We also may face actions from employees that may be costly to defend. Furthermore, such matters could divert the attention of our employees, including management, away from our operations, harm productivity, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot assure you that our restructuring and cost-cutting measures implemented to date will be successful. Furthermore, we may implement additional restructuring and cost-cutting measures in the future that could have the same effects as described above. Because we have significant international operations, we may be subject to political, economic and other conditions relating to our international operations that could increase our operating expenses and disrupt our business. Although the majority of end users of the consumer products that incorporate our products are located in the U.S., we are dependent on sales to OEM customers, located outside of the U.S., that manufacture these consumer products. Also, we depend on a network of distributors to sell our products that also are primarily located outside of the U.S. Export sales, primarily consisting of digital cordless telephony products shipped to manufacturers in Europe and Asia, including Japan and Asia Pacific, represented 92% of our total revenues for 2008. Furthermore, pursuant to the acquisition of the CIPT Business from NXP, we established new foreign subsidiaries, and currently have material operations, in Germany, Switzerland, Hong Kong and India and employ a number of individuals within those foreign operations. As a result, the occurrence of any negative international political, economic or geographic events, as well as our failure to mitigate the challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, could result in significant revenue shortfalls and disrupt our workforce within our foreign operations. These shortfalls and disruptions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: • unexpected changes in foreign government regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in the exchange rate for the United States dollar; • import and export license requirements; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles for international customers than existing customers; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations and maintaining the morale and productivity of employees within foreign operations; 15 Table of Contents • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures and potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; and • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. One or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and consequently, on our business, financial conditions and operating results. Because we depend on independent foundries to manufacture all of our integrated circuit products, we are subject to additional risks that may materially disrupt our business. All of our integrated circuit products are manufactured by independent foundries. While these foundries have been able to adequately meet the demands of our increasing business, we are and will continue to be dependent upon these foundries to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality levels and costs, and to allocate to us a sufficient portion of their foundry capacity to meet our needs in a timely manner. While we currently believe we have adequate capacity to support our current sales levels pursuant to our arrangement with our foundries, we may encounter capacity shortage issues in the future. In the event of a worldwide shortage in foundry capacity, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient allocation of foundry capacity to meet our product needs or we may incur additional costs to ensure specified quantities of products and services. Over-capacity at the current foundries we use, or future foundries we may use, to manufacture our integrated circuit products may lead to increased operating costs and lower gross margins. In addition, such a shortage could lengthen our products’ manufacturing cycle and cause a delay in the shipment of our products to our customers. This could ultimately lead to a loss of sales of our products, harm our reputation and competitive position, and our revenues could be materially reduced. Our business could also be harmed if our current foundries terminate their relationship with us and we are unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. In addition, as TSMC produces a significant portion of our integrated circuit products and ASE tests and assembles them, earthquakes, aftershocks or other natural disasters in Asia, or adverse changes in the political situation in Taiwan, could preclude us from obtaining an adequate supply of wafers to fill customer orders. Such events could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because we depend on NXP to manufacture all of our products for the CIPT Business, we are subject to additional risks that may materially disrupt our business. As part of the acquisition of the CIPT Business, we entered into a Manufacturing Services Collaboration Agreement, as amended, with NXP pursuant to which NXP agreed to provide us with specified manufacturing, pre-testing, assembling and final-testing services relating to the CIPT Business products for up to seven years following the closing of the Acquisition at predetermined costs. Products from the CIPT Business (e.g. DECT and VoIP products) currently represent a substantial portion of our total revenues and are anticipated to continue to generate significant revenues for the company in future periods. While NXP has been able to generally meet our manufacturing demands to date, in some cases NXP has failed to meet its required delivery schedule and may be subject to late delivery penalties as a result. These late deliveries have not adversely impacted our ability to satisfy our customers’ requirements in a timely manner. In addition, NXP has announced the closing of its Fishkill, New York, manufacturing facilities which will result in the transfer of some of our products being manufactured at the Fishkill facility to NXP’s Nijmegen facility. We are in the process of working with NXP to re-qualify some of our products at the Nijmegen facility and establish other procedures for the transfer of manufacturing capabilities, including the building of sufficient inventory during the transition period, in order not to disrupt our product shipments and customer relationships. However, if the re-qualification of some of our products in the Nijmegen facility or the other procedures we are establishing for the transfer of manufacturing capabilities are not completed in a timely and satisfactory manner, we fail to build sufficient inventory during the 16 Table of Contents transition period or NXP otherwise is not able to meet its obligations to us under the Manufacturing Services Collaboration Agreement, as amended, our product shipments may be disrupted, customer relationships may be harmed and our business could be materially adversely affected. There are inherent and unforeseen risks and delays associated with the transfer of manufacturing capacities from one facility to another. Our business also could be materially harmed if NXP fails to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality levels or allocate to us a sufficient portion of its foundry capacity to meet our needs for the CIPT Business products due to its capacity constraints, including as a result of the provision of manufacturing services to NXP’s internal business units. We also may encounter capacity shortage issues in the future if sales for the CIPT Business products continue to increase as we anticipate and NXP cannot sufficiently meet our increasing demands. A capacity shortage could lengthen our CIPT Business products’ manufacturing cycle, cause a delay in the shipment of our products to our customers, lead to a loss of sales of our products, harm our reputation and competitive position with customers, some of whom we recently established relationships as a result of the acquisition, and our revenues could be materially reduced. Our business would be materially harmed if NXP cannot for any reason fulfill its manufacturing obligations to us under the manufacturing agreement, including due to financial or operational hardships within NXP as a result of the current significant downturn within the semiconductors industry or otherwise, and we are unable to obtain satisfactory replacement to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. Moreover, in order to enable NXP to provide the specified manufacturing, pre-testing, assembling and final-testing services relating to the CIPT Business products to us, we provide binding capacity commitments to NXP based on a periodic rolling forecast. The manufacturing agreement with NXP provides that we may be subject to monetary penalties if we fail to meet our capacity commitments to NXP that we previously provided to them. If we fail to meet our capacity commitments due to errors in planning logistics, a decrease in forecast from our customers or other reasons, we may be subject to such monetary penalties. Furthermore, NXP’s assembly and testing facility in the Philippines, where some of our products were assembled and tested by NXP pursuant to the manufacturing agreement, has been sold to STMicroelectronics. Our business also would be materially harmed if NXP cannot fulfill its assembly and testing services for the specified products as a result of the sale. There are inherent and unforeseen risks and delays associated with the transfer of assembly and testing capacities from one facility to another. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by the worldwide economic downturn and its significant adverse impact on the semiconductor industry. The current general worldwide economic downturn has resulted in slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence and spending, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, the end-product customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and make reliable projections. The current downturn has significantly impacted, and will continue to significantly impact, our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, all of which could cause our stock price to further decline. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face various economic issues, including reduced demand for their products, longer product cycles and inability to gain timely access to sufficient credit, all of which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us and could cause reduced spending on our products. As a result of the adverse financial conditions of our customers, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, our days sales outstanding may be negatively impacted, and our revenues and gross profit may decrease. Furthermore, we operate within the semiconductor industry, which has been materially adversely affected by the current general worldwide economic downturn. Downturns in the semiconductor industry are characterized by diminished product demand, excess customer inventories, accelerated erosion of prices and excess production capacity. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and in our results of operations. The current downturn and future downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged. 17 Table of Contents We currently believe that our revenues and gross profit will decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 mainly due to the severe global economic downturn generally and the significant decline in the semiconductor industry specifically. Because the manufacture of our products is complex, the foundries on which we depend may not achieve the necessary yields or product reliability that our business requires. The manufacture of our products is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a highly controlled environment. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by a foundry could adversely affect the foundry’s ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. If the foundries we currently use do not achieve the necessary yields or product reliability, our ability to fulfill our customers’ needs could suffer. This could ultimately lead to a loss of sales of our products and have a negative effect on our gross margins and results of operations. Furthermore, there are other significant risks associated with relying on these third-party foundries, including: • risks due to the fact that we have reduced control over production cost, delivery schedules and product quality; • less recourse if problems occur as the warranties on wafers or products supplied to us are limited; and • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. As we depend on independent subcontractors, located in Asia, to assemble and test our semiconductor products, we are subject to additional risks that may materially disrupt our business. Independent subcontractors, located in Asia, assemble and test our semiconductor products. Because we rely on independent subcontractors to perform these services, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules or quality levels. Our future success also depends on the financial viability of our independent subcontractors. If the capital structures of our independent subcontractors weaken, we may experience product shortages, quality assurance problems, increased manufacturing costs, and/or supply chain disruption. Moreover, the economic, market, social, and political situations in countries where some of our independent subcontractors are located are unpredictable, can be volatile, and can have a significant impact on our business because we may not be able to obtain product in a timely manner. Market and political conditions, including currency fluctuation, terrorism, political strife, war, labor disruption, and other factors, including natural or man-made disasters, adverse changes in tax laws, tariff, import or export quotas, power and water shortages, or interruption in air transportation, in areas where our independent subcontractors are located also could have a severe negative impact on our operating capabilities. In order to sustain the future growth of our business, we must penetrate new markets and our new products must achieve widespread market acceptance. In order to increase our sales volume and expand our business, we must penetrate new markets and introduce new products. We are exploring opportunities to expand sales of our products to China, Korea and South America. However, there are no assurances that we will gain significant market share in those competitive markets. In addition, many North American, European and Japanese OEMs are moving their manufacturing sites to Southeast Asia as a result of the cyclical nature of manufacturing capacity issues and cost of silicon integrated circuits, the continued decline of average selling prices of chipsets and other industry-wide factors. This trend may cause the mix of our OEM customers to change in the future, thereby further necessitating our need to penetrate new markets. Furthermore, to sustain the future growth of our business, we need to introduce new products as sales of our older products taper off. Moreover, the penetration of new competitive markets and introduction of new products could require us to reduce the sale prices of our products or increase the cost per 18 Table of Contents product and thus reducing our total gross profit in future periods. As an example, we recently introduced to the market the XpandR platform that integrates DECT and Wi-Fi capabilities to enable multimedia and web-related applications in our future products. Our future growth is dependent on market acceptance and penetration of the XpandR-based products, for which we can provide no assurances. Our inability to penetrate the market or lack of customer acceptance of these products may harm our business and potential growth. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, our business may be harmed. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel, change or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Given current market conditions, we have less ability to accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. In addition, we have little visibility into and no control of the demand by our customer’s customers—generally consumer electronics retailers. A decrease in the consumer electronics retailers’ demand or a build up of their inventory, both of which are out of our control, may cause a cancellation, change or deferral of purchase orders on at short notice by our customers. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers and their customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products, and are increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of our customers’ demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate our customers’ demand or our customers overestimate their demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate our customers’ demand or our customers underestimate their demand and insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. As a result of the Acquisition, we now maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customer’s projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Since we own inventory that is physically located in a third party’s warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product and negatively impact our cash flow. We are dependent on a small number of OEM customers, and our business could be harmed by the loss of any of these customers or reductions in their purchasing volumes. We sell our products to a limited number of OEM customers through a network of distributors. Moreover, many North American, European and Japanese OEMs are moving their manufacturing sites to Southeast Asia, as a result of the cyclical nature of manufacturing capacity issues and cost of silicon integrated circuits, the continued decline of average selling prices of chipsets and other industry-wide factors. In addition, OEMs located in Southeast Asia are growing and gaining competitive strength. As a result, the mix of our OEM customers may change in the future. However, we may not succeed in attracting new customers as these potential customers may have pre-existing relationships with our current or potential competitors. This trend also may promote the consolidation of OEMs located in North America, Europe and Japan with OEMs located in Southeast Asia, which may reduce the number of our potential customers and reduce the volume of chipsets the combined OEM may purchase from us. However, as is common in our industry, we typically do not enter into long term contracts with our customers in which they commit to purchase products from us. The loss of any of our OEM customers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To attract new customers, we may be faced with intense price competition, which may affect our revenues and gross margins. 19 Table of Contents There are several emerging market trends that may challenge our ability to continue to grow our business. We believe new technological developments in the home residential market may adversely affect our operating results. For example, the rapid deployment of new communication access methods, including mobile, wireless broadband, cable and other connectivity, as well as the projected lack of growth in products using fixed-line telephony would reduce our total revenues derived from, and unit sales of, cordless fixed-line telephony products. Our ability to maintain our growth will depend on the expansion of our product lines to capitalize on the emerging access methods and on our success in developing and selling a portfolio of “system-on-a-chip” solutions that integrate video, voice, data and communication technologies in a wider multimedia market, as well as on our success in developing and selling DECT, CoIP and video products. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in expanding our product lines, or develop and sell in a timely manner a portfolio of “system-on-a-chip” solutions. Furthermore, there is a growing threat from alternative technologies accelerating the decline of the fixed-line telephony market. This competition comes mainly from mobile telephony, including emerging dual-mode mobile Wi-Fi phones, but also from other innovative applications, such as Skype. Given that we derive a significant amount of revenues from chipsets incorporated into fixed-line telephony products, if we are unable to develop new technologies in the face of the decline of this market, our business could be materially adversely affected. The possible emerging trend of our OEM customers outsourcing their production may cause our revenue to decline. We believe there may be an emerging trend of our OEM customers outsourcing their production to third parties. We have invested substantial resources to build relationships with our OEM customers. However the outsourcing companies whom our OEM customers may choose to outsource production may not have prior business relationship with us or may instead have prior or ongoing relationships with our competitors. The emergence of this trend may require us to expend substantial additional resources to build relationships with these outsourcing companies, which would increase our operating expenses. Even if we do expend such resources, there are no assurances that these outsourcing companies will choose to incorporate our chipsets rather than chipsets of our competitors. Our inability to retain an OEM customer once such customer chooses to outsource production would have a material adverse effect on our future revenue. Because we have significant operations in Israel, we may be subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting Israel that could increase our operating expenses and disrupt our business. Our principal research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel and, as a result, at December 31, 2008, 261 of our 446 employees were located in Israel, including 168 out of 271 of our research and development personnel. In addition, although we are incorporated in Delaware, a majority of our directors and executive officers are residents of Israel. Although substantially all of our sales currently are being made to customers outside of Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, such as the current conflict in the Gaza Strip between Israel and Hamas, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early to mid-1980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by the Arab countries since Israel’s establishment. Although they have not done so to date, these restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or expansion of our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a state of hostility has existed, varying in degree and intensity, between Israel and the Arab countries. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain 20 Table of Contents Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, hostilities between Israel and some of its Arab neighbors have recently escalated and intensified, such as the current conflict in the Gaza Strip between Israel and Hamas. We cannot predict whether or in what manner these conflicts will be resolved. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. In addition, certain of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since our inception, we cannot predict the effect of these obligations on the company in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence, for a significant period, of one or more of our officers or key employees due to military service. The tax benefits available to us under Israeli law require us to meet several conditions, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise and Beneficiary Enterprise status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, commonly referred to as the Investment Law, and as amended. The Investment Law provides that capital investments in a production facility (or other eligible assets) may be designated as an Approved Enterprise. Under that law, we receive certain tax benefits in Israel. To be eligible for tax benefits, we must meet certain conditions, relating principally to adherence to the investment program filed with the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade and to periodic reporting obligations. Although we believe we have met such conditions in the past, should we fail to meet such conditions in the future, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate tax rate (27% for 2008 and 26% for 2009) and could be required to refund tax benefits already received. We cannot assure you that such grants and tax benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels, if at all. The tax benefits under these investment plans are scheduled to gradually expire by 2016. The termination or reduction of certain programs and tax benefits (particularly benefits available to us as a result of the Approved Enterprise status of our facilities and programs) or a requirement to refund tax benefits already received may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect. The amendment revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Beneficiary Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004. The new tax regime applies to new investment programs only. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements and have calculated our current tax provision for 2008 accordingly. However, if we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate (27% for 2008 and 26% for 2009). We also could be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. We may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute our stockholders’ equity and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any other prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. 21 Table of Contents Future acquisitions by us could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our stock: • issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentages of ownership; • large one-time write-offs; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • contractual disputes; • risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Third party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results and disrupt our business. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have been and may from time to time be notified of claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. For example, in a lawsuit against Microsoft Corporation, AT&T asserted that our TrueSpeech 8.5 algorithm includes certain elements covered by a patent held by AT&T. AT&T sued Microsoft, one of our TrueSpeech 8.5 licensees, for infringement. We were not named in AT&T’s suit against Microsoft. If litigation becomes necessary to determine the validity of any third party claims, it could result in significant expense to us and could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may try to obtain licenses for those patents or intellectual property rights that we are allegedly infringing. Although holders of these types of intellectual property rights commonly offer these licenses, we cannot assure you that licenses will be offered or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a license for key intellectual property rights from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacturing of products utilizing the technology. Alternatively, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in developing non-infringing technology. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete is in part dependent upon our internally-developed technology and other proprietary rights, which we protect through a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as through confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants. In addition, we have filed a number of patents in the United States and in other foreign countries with respect to new or improved technology that we have developed. However, the status of any patent involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any patent application filed by us will result in a patent being issued, or that the patents issued to us will not be infringed by others. Also, our competitors and potential competitors may develop products with similar technology or functionality as our products, or they may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our product line or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Hong Kong, Japan, 22 Table of Contents Korea and Taiwan, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and may result in significant expense to us and could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Even if we spend significant resources and efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Use by others of our proprietary rights could materially harm our business and expensive litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Because our products are complex, the detection of errors in our products may be delayed, and if we deliver products with defects, our credibility will be harmed, the sales and market acceptance of our products may decrease and product liability claims may be made against us. Our products are complex and may contain errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be significantly harmed. Furthermore, the nature of our products may also delay the detection of any such error or defect. If our products contain errors, defects and bugs, then we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate these problems. This could result in the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. Any actual or perceived problems or delays may also adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers. Furthermore, the existence of any defects, errors or failures in our products could lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us or against our customers. We generally provide our customers with a standard warranty for our products, generally lasting one year from the date of purchase. Although we attempt to limit our liability for product defects to product replacements, we may not be successful, and customers may sue us or claim liability for the defective products. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention and resources, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis. Because of current conditions in the global economy, our exposure to credit risks relating to sales on an open credit basis has increased. We expect demand for enhanced open credit terms, for example, longer payment terms, to continue and believe that such arrangements are a competitive factor in obtaining business. Although we monitor and attempt to mitigate credit risks, including through insurance coverage from time to time, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be effective. Moreover, even if we attempt to mitigate credit risks through insurance coverage, such coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses and we would be subject to a deductible under any insurance coverage. Furthermore, as part of the acquisition of the CIPT Business, we increased our customer base with new customers in Europe and Asia who are less established and have less financial resources than our existing customers. As a result, our future credit risk exposure may increase. Although any losses to date relating to credit exposure of our customers have not been material, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the loss of a customer due to its financial default also could harm our future business and potential growth. Our executive officers and key personnel are critical to our business, and because there is significant competition for personnel in our industry, we may not be able to attract and retain such qualified personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive management team, and our technical, marketing, sales customer support and product development personnel. The loss of significant numbers of such personnel could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any life insurance or other insurance covering the loss of any of our key employees. Because our products are specialized and complex, our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, including qualified technical, marketing and sales personnel. However, the competition for personnel is intense and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining such personnel. 23 Table of Contents We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of our foreign operations. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. In addition to our significant operations in Israel, pursuant to the acquisition of the CIPT Business from NXP, we currently have operations in Germany, Switzerland, Hong Kong and India. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer pricing may be reviewed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and by foreign tax jurisdictions. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, due to the complexity of our corporate structure, the multiple intercompany transactions and the various tax regimes, we cannot assure you that a tax audit or tax dispute to which we may be subject will result in a favorable outcome for us. If taxing authorities do not accept our tax positions and impose higher tax rates on our foreign operations, our overall tax expenses could increase. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States. Export sales to manufacturers in Europe and Asia, including Japan and Asia Pacific, represented 92% of our total revenues for 2008. Although most of our revenue and expenses are transacted in U.S. dollars, we may be exposed to currency exchange fluctuations in the future as business practices evolve and we are forced to transact business in local currencies. Moreover, part of our expenses in Israel are paid in Israeli currency, which subjects us to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the New Israeli Shekel (NIS) and to economic pressures resulting from Israel’s general rate of inflation. Our primary expenses paid in NIS are employee salaries and lease payments on our Israeli facilities. Furthermore, due to the acquisition of the CIPT Business, a portion of our expenses for our European operations are paid in Euro and Swiss Franc, which subjects us to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Euro and Swiss Franc. Our primary expenses paid in Euro and Swiss Franc are employee salaries, lease and operational payments on our European facilities. As a result, an increase in the value of the NIS, Euro and Swiss Franc in comparison to the U.S. dollar, which has been the trend in most of the year due to the devaluation of the U.S. dollar, could increase the cost of our technology development, research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses, all of which could harm our operating profit. From time to time, we use derivative instruments in order to minimize the effects of currency fluctuations, but our hedging positions may be partial, may not exist at all in the future or may not succeed in minimizing our foreign currency fluctuation risks. Our financial results may be harmed if the trend relating to the devaluation of the U.S. dollars continues for an extended period. Because the markets in which we compete are subject to rapid changes, our products may become obsolete or unmarketable. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, demand for higher levels of integration, growing competition and new product introductions. Our future growth is dependent not only on the continued success of our existing products but also successful introduction of new products as some of our existing products, such as 900MHz, 2.4GHz and 5.8GHz, experienced decreased sales. Our ability to adapt to changing technology and anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. If our product development and improvements take longer than planned, the availability of our products would be delayed. Any such delay may render our products obsolete or unmarketable, which would have a negative impact on our ability to sell our products and our results of operations. Because of changing customer requirements and emerging industry standards, we may not be able to achieve broad market acceptance of our products. Our success is dependent, in part, on our ability to: • successfully develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products at competitive prices and in a timely manner in order to meet changing customer needs; 24 Table of Contents • convince leading OEMs to select our new and enhanced products for design into their own new products; • respond effectively to new technological changes or new product announcements by others; • effectively use and offer leading technologies; and • maintain close working relationships with our key customers. There are no assurances that we will be successful in these pursuits, that the demand for our products will continue or that our products will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop and introduce new products that are compatible with industry standards and that satisfy customer requirements, and the failure of our products to achieve broad market acceptance, could have a negative impact on our ability to sell our products and our results of operations. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do, we cannot be certain that our products will be accepted in the marketplace or capture market share. The markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and price erosion. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. Given the highly competitive environment in which we operate, we cannot be sure that any competitive advantages enjoyed by our current products would be sufficient to establish and sustain our new products in the market. Any increase in price or competition could result in the erosion of our market share, to the extent we have obtained market share, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In each of our business activities, we face current and potential competition from competitors that have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution resources and management expertise than we do. These competitors may also have pre-existing relationships with our customers or potential customers. Further, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products when we are unable to do so. Our principal competitors in the cordless market include Infineon and SiTel (formerly the DECT division of National Semiconductor). Our principal competitors in the VoIP market include Broadcom, Infineon, Texas Instruments and new Taiwanese IC vendors. Our principal competitors in the multimedia market include Wi-Fi and multimedia application processor IC vendors like Atheros, Broadcom, CSR, Freescale, Intel, Marvel, Ralink, Samsung and Texas Instruments. As discussed above, various new developments in the home residential market may require us to enter into new markets with competitors that have more established presence, and significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution resources and management expertise than we do. The expenditure of greater resources to expand our current product lines and develop a portfolio of “system-on-a-chip” solutions that integrate video, voice, data and communication technologies in a wider multimedia market may increase our operating expenses and reduce our gross profit. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing and introducing new products that are responsive to market demands. An unfavorable government review of our federal income tax returns or changes in our effective tax rates could adversely affect our operating results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. 25 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from these examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2003 and 2004 have been selected for audit by the Internal Revenue Service and we are appealing the Internal Revenue Service’s initial determination. While we believe that we have made adequate provisions related to the audits of these tax returns, the final determination of our obligations may exceed the amounts provided for by us in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Specifically, we may receive assessments related to the audits and/or reviews of our U.S. income tax returns that exceed amounts provided for by us. In the event we are unsuccessful in reducing the amount of such assessments, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, if additional taxes and/or penalties are assessed as a result of these audits, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision, operating expenses and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. A growing trend in our industry is the integration of greater semiconductor content into a single chip to achieve higher levels of functionality. In order to remain competitive, we must achieve higher levels of design integration and deliver new integrated products on a timely basis. This will require us to expend greater research and development resources, and may require us to modify the manufacturing processes for some of our products, to achieve greater integration. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Although this migration to smaller geometry process technologies has helped us to offset the declining average selling prices of our products, this effort may not continue to be successful. Also, because we are a fabless semiconductor company, we depend on our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition. In case our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our cash and cash equivalents and investment portfolio could be adversely affected by the current downturn in the financial and credit markets. We invest our cash and cash equivalents in highly liquid investments with original maturities of generally three months or less at the time of purchase and maintain them with reputable major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions, to the extent such deposits are even insured in such foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor on a systematic basis the cash and cash equivalent balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss of principal or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail or the financial and credit markets continue to worsen. Furthermore, we hold an investment portfolio consisting principally of corporate and U.S. government bonds. We intend, and have the ability, to hold such investments until recovery of temporary declines in market value or maturity; however, we can provide no assurance that we will recover declines in the market value of our investments. We recorded a loss of $2,961,000 in our statements of operations for fiscal year 2008 relating to one of our marketable securities in our investment portfolio because our management determined that the decline in the fair value of the referenced security was other-than-temporary, notwithstanding our intent to hold such investment until recovery. 26 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have a staggered board, which means it will generally take two years to change the composition of our board. Our board of directors also has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue such shares without a stockholder vote. It is possible that these provisions may prevent or discourage third parties from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these factors may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile so you may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them. Announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results, changes in the general conditions of the highly dynamic industry in which we compete or the national economies in which we do business, and other factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These factors and fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 