ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks presented below may not be all of the risks that we may face. These are the factors that we believe could cause actual results to be different from expected and historical results. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could have an effect on our business operations and financial performance. The industry in which we operate is very competitive and changes rapidly. Sometimes new risks emerge, and management may not be able to predict all of them, or be able to predict how they may cause actual results to be different from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as a prediction of future results. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Failure to timely or successfully complete the transition of our resources to our business or restructure our business may have material adverse consequences for the Company. In connection with the Asset Sale, we have begun to transition all of the NMS Communications Platform business's resources to the business and restructure the business, which includes consolidating our staff and facilities. If we are unable to successfully and timely complete this transitioning and restructuring, we may not achieve meaningful growth and sustainable profitability; our remaining assets could lose value; we may not be able to retain key employees or key customer relationships; we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our business as a stand-alone entity; and we may not be able to perform our obligations under various contracts and commitments. Any of these outcomes may have material adverse consequences for us and substantial negative impacts on our business and our stock price. 7 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses in recent years, we may incur net losses in the future and we may not achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses in the past three years, including net losses of $38.1 million, $9.3 million and $15.8 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Past operating losses have adversely affected our working capital, total assets and stockholders' equity. We also expect to incur a non-GAAP net loss from continuing operations of approximately $3.0 million in 2009. Our current operating plan for 2009 has established a cost structure, the goal of which, based on expected revenue growth, will position us for profitability in the future. If revenues do not improve, or if expenses are greater than we anticipate, we may continue to experience losses, which could cause us to take actions to reduce operating costs. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have limited cash to fund our business and operations and may need additional capital in the future to sufficiently fund our operations, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Failure to obtain any required financing would harm our ability to grow our business. Our operations may require additional funding, in large part due to continued losses, operating expenses, increases in capital expenditures and contractual obligations for the foreseeable future. In addition, deterioration in the business environment and market conditions could negatively impact operating results and liquidity. We have a limited amount of cash to fund our business and operations. Our cash balances at December 31, 2008 were $19.3 million. As a result of expected payments of lease termination costs, restructuring costs, transaction costs associated with the sale of the NMS Communications Platforms business in 2008, and cash expected to be used in operations in 2009, we estimate our cash balances to be approximately $8.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, including anticipated receipt of escrow funds of $3.2 million relating to the sale of the NMS Communications Platforms business. If our cash and cash equivalents balances and any cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will require additional funding. We expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings and debt financings, as well as bank borrowings and through interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, including the effects of the recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide. As a result of these and other factors, we do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will be able to obtain financing on terms favorable to our stockholders or us. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to maintain or grow our business. We currently partner with mobile operators to market and distribute our services and thus to generate our revenues. The loss of or a change in any significant mobile operator relationships would cause us to lose access to their subscribers and thus materially reduce our revenues. We sell our managed service offerings primarily through our direct sales force. We also sell our cap-ex offerings through our direct sales force and channel partners. During 2008, three customers—Ericsson AB, Samsung, and Sprint Nextel Corporation—represented 24%, 18%, and 17%, respectively, of the Company's total revenues. During 2007, three customers—Ericsson AB, Leap Wireless International Inc., and Acision—represented 59%, 22%, and 17%, respectively of the Company's total revenues. Our future success is highly dependent upon maintaining successful relationships with the mobile operators with which we currently work and establishing new mobile operator relationships. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a very limited number of mobile operators, including Sprint Nextel Corporation. Our failure to maintain our relationships with, or a significant reduction in 8 Table of Contents revenues from, one or more of these mobile operators would materially reduce our revenues and thus harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Because a substantial portion of our revenues are currently derived from three mobile operators, if any of our significant mobile operators are unable to fulfill its payment obligations, our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. At December 31, 2008, two customers—Ericsson AB and Sprint Nextel Corporation—represented 39% and 26%, respectively, of the Company's outstanding accounts receivable balance. Since 65% of our outstanding accounts receivable at December 31, 2008 were with these two customers, we have a concentration of credit risk. If any of these customers is unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us under our agreements with them, our revenues and cash flows could decline significantly and our financial condition would be harmed. In addition, recent disruptions in national and international credit markets have lead to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on consumer and business loans. Continued disruptions in credit markets may materially limit consumer credit availability and restrict credit availability of our mobile operators, which may also impact their ability to fulfill their payment obligations. Our business has a limited operating history as a stand-alone entity, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business. Since we completed the Asset Sale in December 2008, we have only a limited history of generating revenues solely from our managed mobile personalization services as a stand-alone entity, and the future revenue potential of operating our business is uncertain. As a result of our short operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of the limited operating history of our business and the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in our stage of development in the emerging mobile entertainment industry. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: •maintain our current, and develop new, mobile operator relationships; •maintain and expand our current, and develop new, relationships with third-party services owners; •retain or improve our current revenue-sharing arrangements with mobile operators and third-party branded services owners; •maintain and enhance our own brand; •continue to develop and upgrade our technology either internally or with third parties; •continue to enhance our information processing systems; •increase the number of mobile subscribers for our mobile services; •execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; •respond to competitive developments; and •attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing many of these efforts might be very expensive, or may take a significant amount of time which would adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our operating results fluctuate and are difficult to predict, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we may not be able to predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently or soon enough to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Individual mobile operator relationships represent meaningful portions of our revenues and net loss in any quarter. In addition, some payments from mobile operators that we recognize as revenue on a cash basis may be delayed unpredictably. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this item, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: •timing and market acceptance of new services or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; •timing and level of expenditures for sales, marketing and product and services development; •the popularity of new services released in prior periods; •changes in prominence of deck placement for our services and those of our competitors; •changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our mobile operator customers and channel partners; •fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall subscriber demand for our services; •the seasonality of our industry; •strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; and •general industry trends and market conditions. In addition, if our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, our common stock price may decline substantially. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $310.6 million for federal income tax purposes and federal tax credits of approximately $3.6 million, which exclude the impact of any unrecognized tax benefits residing within our subsidiaries. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, including issuances, redemptions, recapitalizations, exercises of options, conversions of convertible debt, purchases or sales by 5%-or-greater shareholders and similar transactions that result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of capital stock, over a three-year period, as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, an annual limitation would be imposed with respect to the ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits. Similar provisions may exist for state tax purposes and vary by jurisdiction. Because substantially all of our net operating loss carryforwards are reserved for by a valuation allowance, we would not expect an annual limitation on the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards to significantly reduce our net deferred tax asset, although the timing of our cash flows may be impacted to the extent any such annual limitation deferred the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards to future tax years. 10 Table of Contents Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. On August 20, 2008, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (" NASDAQ") advising that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company's common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ has suspended its rules requiring a minimum bid price of $1.00 until July 20, 2009. If this rule is enforced again beginning on July 20, 2009, then we have until November 20, 2009 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we fail to comply with this minimum bid price requirement or any other listing standards applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock could significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions using our common stock on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. The markets we serve are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively, which could adversely affect demand for our services, our margins and our market share. The development, distribution and sale of mobile services are highly competitive. For mobile subscribers, we compete primarily on the basis of brand, service quality and price. For mobile operators, we compete for deck placement based on these factors, as well as historical performance and perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. For services and brand licensors, we compete based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with mobile operators. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. There are companies currently marketing services that compete directly with our services. Moreover, our competitors and customers may be able to develop services that are superior to our mobile personalization services that achieve greater customer acceptance or that have significantly improved functionality or content as compared to our existing and future services. By focusing all of their efforts on a specific niche of the market, some of our competitors may succeed in introducing services that change the competitive dynamic in that market niche and adversely affect demand for our services. Our competitors may be able to negotiate alliances with strategic partners on more favorable terms than we are able to negotiate. These competitive factors could render one or more of our services obsolete, which would adversely affect our revenues. Current competitors for our services include: RealNetworks, Inc., Motricity, Inc., Amdocs QPASS, Cellmania, Inc., Ericsson AB, Amazon.com, Inc. and Apple, Inc. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could decline and we could lose market share, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our managed personalization services or if we incur excessive expenses promoting and maintaining our brand or our mobile personalization services, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Although we previously operated the business as a division under the name LiveWire Mobile, we only recently changed our corporate name to LiveWire Mobile, Inc. We believe that establishing and 11 Table of Contents maintaining our brand is critical to retaining and expanding our existing relationships with mobile operators, as well as developing new relationships. Promotion of the LiveWire Mobile brand will depend on our success in providing high-quality mobile personalization services. Similarly, recognition of our mobile personalization services by mobile subscribers will depend on our ability to develop content-rich, high-quality, engaging services. However, our success will also depend, in part, on the services and efforts of third parties, over which we have little or no control. For instance, if our mobile operators fail to provide high levels of service, their subscribers' ability to access our mobile personalization services may be interrupted, which may adversely affect our results of operations and our brand. If mobile subscribers and mobile operators do not perceive our existing mobile personalization services as high-quality or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by our mobile subscribers and mobile operators, then we may be unsuccessful in building brand recognition and brand loyalty in the marketplace. In addition, extending our brand and recognition of our mobile personalization services will be costly and will involve extensive management time to execute successfully. If we fail to increase brand awareness and consumer recognition of our mobile personalization services, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. Our growth strategy relies on managed services offerings that may not generate revenues and may negatively affect our financial performance. Our growth strategy relies on revenue derived from recurring monthly subscription revenues, and download or transaction fees from customers of our managed service offerings. In the managed services model, we receive payment from our customers based on subscriber counts and subscriber usage of our solutions. This business model may prove to be unsuccessful, adversely affecting our revenue streams. If we cannot achieve expected revenue streams, we will likely need to accelerate the depreciation of assets capitalized for managed services, further negatively affecting our financial performance. The success of our business depends upon our ability to increase subscription revenues and transaction or download revenue. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by the loss of subscription revenue and transaction or download revenue. Mobile subscription and revenue share businesses are a relatively new media delivery model and we cannot predict with accuracy our long-term ability to maintain or increase subscription and related revenue. Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to, or usage of, our services for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the services sufficiently or that the service does not provide enough value, a lack of attractive or exclusive services generally or as compared to competitive service offerings, or because customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. We are focusing our business on managed services and expect our cap-ex revenue to decline in the future. If cap-ex revenues decline more or faster than anticipated, and our managed services revenues are unable to offset that decline, our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. As we focus on our managed services business, we expect revenues from our cap-ex business to decline significantly over time. We offer our MyCaller ringback platform as bundled products and services under cap-ex arrangements. We sell our cap-ex offerings through our direct sales force and channel partners. We have notified certain of our cap-ex channel partners that we do not plan to extend our agreements with them beyond their current terms. Accordingly, we expect revenues from these arrangements to decline over time. If revenues from our cap-ex business decline more or faster than anticipated and we cannot grow our managed services revenues quickly enough, our revenue would decline and thus harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Contracts with our mobile operators subject us to significant risks that could negatively impact our revenue or otherwise harm our operating results. We derive a material portion of our revenue from mobile operator managed services. Furthermore, many of these contracts do not provide for guaranteed minimum payments or usage levels. Because most of our mobile operator contracts are non-exclusive, it is possible that our mobile operators could purchase similar services from third parties, and cease to use our services in the future. As a result, our revenue derived under these agreements could be substantially reduced depending on the pricing and usage decisions of our mobile operators. Revenue related to our managed services is, to a large extent, dependent upon the marketing and promotion activities of our mobile operators. The loss of mobile operators or a reduction in marketing or promotion of our applications would likely result in the loss of future revenues from our mobile operator managed services. Many of our mobile operator contracts are short term and allow for early termination by the mobile operator with or without cause. These contracts are therefore subject to renegotiation of pricing or other key terms that could be adverse to our interests, and leave us vulnerable to non-renewal by the mobile operators. If our mobile operator contracts are terminated, not renewed, or renegotiated in a manner less favorable to us, our managed services revenue would be negatively impacted. Finally, a certain number of our mobile operator contracts obligate us to indemnify the mobile operator for certain liabilities and losses incurred by them, including liabilities resulting from third party claims for damages that arise out of the use of our technology. These indemnification terms provide us with certain procedural rights, including, in some cases, the right to control the defense of the indemnified party. Any claims against which we may be obligated to defend our mobile operators could result in paying amounts pursuant to these obligations that could materially harm our operating results. Mobile operators generally control the price charged for our mobile services and the billing and collection for sales of our mobile personalization services and could make decisions detrimental to us. Mobile operators generally control the price charged for our mobile personalization services either by approving or establishing the price of the services charged to their subscribers. Some of our mobile operator agreements also restrict our ability to change prices. In cases where mobile operator approval is required, approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all. A failure or delay in obtaining these approvals, the establishment of prices by the mobile operators for our services, or changes in these prices could adversely affect market acceptance of those services. A failure or delay by these mobile operators in adjusting the retail price for our mobile personalization services, could adversely affect sales volume and our revenues for those services. Inferior mobile handset deck placement would likely adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Mobile operators provide a limited selection of services that are accessible to their subscribers through a deck on their mobile handsets. The inherent limitation on the number of services available on the deck is a function of the limited screen size of handsets and mobile operators' perceptions of the depth of menus and numbers of choices mobile subscribers will generally utilize. Mobile operators typically provide one or more top level menus highlighting services that are recent top sellers, that the mobile operator believes will become top sellers or that the mobile operator otherwise chooses to feature, in addition to a link to a menu of additional services sorted by genre. We believe that deck placement on either the top level or featured menu, or toward the top of genre-specific or other menus, rather than lower down or in sub-menus, is likely to result in services achieving a greater degree of commercial success. If mobile operators choose to give our services less favorable deck 13 Table of Contents placement, our services may be less successful than we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for porting services to a broad array of mobile handsets, our attractiveness to mobile operators and branded services owners may be impaired, and our sales could suffer. Once developed, our services may be required to be ported to, or converted into separate versions for, more than 1,000 different handset models, many with different technological requirements. These include handsets with various combinations of underlying technologies, user interfaces, keypad layouts, screen resolutions, sound capabilities and other mobile operator-specific customizations. If we fail to maintain or enhance our porting capabilities, our sales could suffer and mobile operators might choose to give our services less desirable deck placement or not to give our services placement on their decks at all. Changes to our development processes to address new features or functions of handsets or networks might cause inefficiencies in our porting process or might result in more labor intensive porting processes. In addition, we anticipate that in the future we may be required to port existing and new services to a broader array of handsets. If we utilize more labor intensive porting processes, our margins could be significantly reduced and it might take us longer to port services to an equivalent number of handsets. This, in turn, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If our independent, third-party suppliers cease development or provision of new services for us and we are unable to find comparable replacements, we may have to reduce the number of services that we intend to introduce, delay the introduction of some services or increase our internal development staff, which would be a time-consuming and potentially costly process, and, as a result, our competitive position would be adversely impacted. We may rely on independent third-party developers or suppliers to develop or provide some elements of our services, which subjects us to the following risks: •key developers or suppliers who worked with us in the past may choose to work for or be acquired by our competitors; •developers or suppliers currently under contract may try to renegotiate our agreements with them on terms less favorable to us; and •our developers or suppliers may be unable or unwilling to allocate sufficient resources to complete our services in a timely or satisfactory manner or at all. If our developers or suppliers terminate their relationships with us or negotiate agreements with terms less favorable to us, we may have to reduce the number of services that we intend to introduce, delay the introduction of some services or increase our internal development staff, which would be a time-consuming and potentially costly process, and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If one or more of our services were found to contain hidden, objectionable services, our reputation and operating results could suffer. Hidden services may be included in our services by an employee who was not authorized to do so or by an outside developer or supplier without our knowledge. These hidden services and features may contain profanity and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. Our design and porting process and the constraints on the file size of our services reduce the possibility of hidden, objectionable services appearing in the services we publish. Nonetheless, these processes and constraints may not prevent this content from being included in our services. If our services were found to contain 14 Table of Contents hidden, objectionable services, our customers could refuse to sell it and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand a refund of their money. This could have a materially negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other services we sell and our attractiveness to mobile operators or other customers of our services. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be significantly harmed. If wireless subscribers do not continue to use their mobile handsets to access our services, our business growth and future revenues would be adversely affected. We operate in a developing industry. Our success depends on growth in the number of wireless subscribers who use their handsets to access data services and, in particular, entertainment services of the type we develop and distribute. New or different mobile services developed by our current or future competitors may be preferred by subscribers to our services. If the market for our services does not continue to grow or we are unable to acquire new mobile subscribers, our business growth and future revenues would be adversely affected. If mobile subscribers switch their entertainment spending away from our services, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. Mobile subscriber tastes are continually changing and are often unpredictable; if we fail to develop new services that achieve market acceptance, our sales would suffer. Our business depends on services that mobile operators will offer and mobile subscribers will buy. We must continue to invest significant resources in licensing efforts, research and development and marketing to enhance our offering of mobile personalization services and introduce new services, and we must make decisions about these matters well in advance of service release in order to implement them in a timely manner. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences, competing services and the availability of other entertainment activities. If our services are not responsive to the requirements of our mobile operator customers, or the preferences of mobile subscribers, or they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Even if our services are successfully introduced and initially adopted, a subsequent shift in our mobile operator customers or the preferences of mobile subscribers could cause a decline in popularity that could materially reduce our revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions and potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we acquired Groove Mobile and intend to consider additional acquisitions of companies, technologies and services that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; 15 Table of Contents •risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; •potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's services; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We will have continuing obligations to indemnify Dialogic Corporation in connection with the Asset Sale. In connection with the Asset Sale, we have agreed to indemnify Dialogic until December 5, 2009 for a number of specified matters including the breach of our representations, warranties and covenants contained in the asset purchase agreement, and in some cases until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations following the closing of the asset sale. Under our agreement with Dialogic, $2.8 million of the total upfront cash payment was deposited into an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations to Dialogic following the closing. We cannot predict the liabilities that may arise as a result of the Asset Sale. Any liability claims related to the Asset Sale or any indemnification claims made by Dialogic could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by malicious software and other losses. In the ordinary course of our business, most of our agreements with mobile operators include indemnification provisions. In these provisions, we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our products or services, including as a result of intellectual property infringement and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions could be perpetual after execution of the corresponding license or service agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions may be unlimited. Large future indemnity payments would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. We currently transact a majority of our business in U.S. Dollars. We also transact a small portion of our business in other currencies, primarily Euros, Indian Rupees, British Pounds and Canadian Dollars. We also maintain intercompany accounts with our foreign subsidiaries that expose us to revaluation risk. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues, gross margins and operating expenses and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities. Even if we were to implement 16 Table of Contents hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. There is also additional risk if the currency is not freely or actively traded. Internal development efforts by mobile operators may adversely affect demand for our services. Some mobile operators may have the technical and financial ability to design and produce components replicating or improving on the functionality of most of our services. These organizations may consider in-house development of technologies and services as an alternative to doing business with us. We cannot be certain that these mobile operators will choose to work with us, rather than attempting to develop similar technology and services internally or to obtain them through acquisition. If mobile operators choose to produce internally rather than purchase from us, it will decrease the size of the market for our services. Our network is subject to security risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. Our business depends on the ability to transmit confidential information and license intellectual property securely over private and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to transmit and store such information and data securely, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could hurt customer demand for our products and services, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, and expose us to litigation or liability. We also may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks, which expenditures could adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which may facilitate the development of competing services by others. We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, restrictions on disclosure, and patents to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our services or technology. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, it will be easier for our competitors to sell competing services. Our services may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may result in lawsuits and prohibit us from selling our services or subject us to litigation costs and monetary damages. There is a risk that third parties have filed or will file applications for, or have received or will receive, patents or obtain additional intellectual property rights relating to materials or processes that we use or propose to use. As a result, from time to time, third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are used in our services or are otherwise important to us. In addition, third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, customers or partners with respect to existing or future services or other proprietary rights. We generally undertake to indemnify our customers and partners against intellectual property infringement claims asserted against them with respect to the services we sell to, or distribute through, them. Any claims against us or customers or partners that we indemnify against intellectual property claims, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation or monetary damages and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop non-infringing technology. If a claim is successful, we may be required to obtain a license from the parties claiming 17 Table of Contents the infringement. If we are unable to obtain a license, we may be unable to market our affected services. Limitations on our ability to market our services and delays and costs associated with monetary damages and redesigns in compliance with an adverse judgment or settlement would harm our business. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We have significantly reduced the size of our operations in connection with the Asset Sale, and may experience growth in our business through internal growth and acquisitions. Growth to our business and operations could place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure, and could strain our ability to: •develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls; •enhance our reporting systems and procedures; •recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel; •maintain our quality standards; and •maintain branded services owner, mobile operator and end-user satisfaction. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are unable to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to grow our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel, including the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom may be difficult to replace. The loss of services of any of these executive officers or other key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The replacement of any of these executive officers or key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain additional, highly-qualified personnel. Competition for hiring these employees is intense. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the mobile communication industry, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock or limitation on the number of equity based awards we can make under our equity plans may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. Furthermore, changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the sizes or types of stock options that job candidates may require to accept our offer of employment. If we fail to attract new technical personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Economic conditions and any associated impact on consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to macroeconomic fluctuations in the United States and worldwide economy, including those that impact discretionary consumer spending. Continued economic uncertainty and reductions in discretionary consumer spending may result in reductions in sales of our mobile 18 Table of Contents personalization services, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and our financial condition. If these issues persist, or if the economy continues this prolonged period of decelerating growth or recession, our results of operations may be harmed. International conditions could interrupt international operations, exposing us to significant costs. We maintain offshore development operations in India. International operations expose us to potential operational disruptions as a result of currency valuations, political turmoil and labor issues. Any such disruptions may have a negative effect on our operations, on customer satisfaction and on our ability to timely develop our products and services on our ability to attract or maintain customers. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Global Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations increases our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, we depend on the reports of mobile operators for information regarding the amount of sales of our music and related offerings and to determine the amount of royalties we owe branded services licensors and the amount of our revenues. These reports may not be timely, and may contain errors. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts also involve substantial accounting-related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Global Market make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors' and officers' liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors' and officers' insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of The NASDAQ Global Market rules, and officers will be significantly curtailed. Anti-takeover provisions in Delaware law and our corporate documents may affect the value of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law and our corporate documents may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to remove our board of directors or management or to acquire us. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the election of members to our board of directors for staggered three-year terms. The existence of these anti-takeover provisions may substantially impede the ability of a third party to acquire control of us or accumulate large blocks of our common stock, which may adversely affect our stock price. 19 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Wireless communications technologies are changing rapidly, and we may not be successful in working with these new technologies. Wireless network and mobile handset technologies are undergoing rapid innovation. New handsets with more advanced processors and supporting advanced programming languages continue to be introduced. In addition, networks that enable enhanced features, such as multiplayer technology, are being developed and deployed. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these services or technologies. The development of new, technologically advanced mobile services to match the advancements in handset technology is a complex process requiring significant research and development expense, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, the available channels for our mobile personalization services may be limited and our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop mobile personalization services to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. In addition, the widespread adoption of networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our mobile personalization services. Technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our mobile personalization competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our services may be technologically inferior to those of our competitors, less appealing to mobile subscribers or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our services, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce our revenues, increase our development expenses and harm our reputation. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt either to preserve our product launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. In either case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. Future mobile handsets may significantly reduce or eliminate mobile operators' control over delivery of our services and force us to rely further on alternative sales channels, which, if not successful, could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. Substantially all our services are currently sold through mobile operators' branded e-commerce services. We have invested significant resources developing this sales channel. However, a growing number of handset models currently available allow wireless subscribers to browse the Internet and, in some cases, download services from sources other than a mobile operator's branded e-commerce service such as Amazon.com, Inc. or iTunes (i.e. off-portal or e-commerce access). In addition, the development of other application delivery mechanisms such as premium-SMS may enable subscribers to download services without having to access a mobile operator's branded e-commerce service. Increased use by subscribers of open operating system handsets or premium-SMS delivery systems that allow off-portal or e-commerce access will enable them to bypass mobile operators' branded e-commerce services and could reduce the market power of mobile operators. This would force us to rely further on alternative sales channels where we may not be successful selling our services, and would likely require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. This would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents The complexity of and incompatibilities among mobile handsets may require us to use additional resources for the development of our mobile personalization services. To reach large numbers of wireless subscribers, mobile service providers like us must support numerous mobile handsets and technologies. However, keeping pace with the rapid innovation of handset technologies together with the continuous introduction of new, and often incompatible, handset models by mobile operators requires us to make significant investments in research and development, including personnel, technologies and equipment. In the future, we may be required to make substantial investments in our development if the number of different types of handset models continues to proliferate. If we fail to deliver our services at the same time as new mobile handset models are commercially introduced, our sales may suffer. Our business is dependent, in part, on the commercial introduction of new handset models with enhanced features, including larger, higher resolution color screens, improved audio quality, and greater processing power, memory, battery life and storage. We do not control the timing of these handset launches. Some new handsets are sold by mobile operators with one or more services or other applications pre-loaded, and many mobile subscribers who download our services do so after they purchase their new handsets to experience the new features of those handsets. Some handset manufacturers give us access to their handsets prior to commercial release. If one or more major handset manufacturers were to cease to provide us access to new handset models prior to commercial release, we might be unable to introduce compatible versions of our services for those handsets in coordination with their commercial release, and we might not be able to make compatible versions for a substantial period following their commercial release. If, because of new service-launch or upgrade delays, we miss or are not provided the opportunity to sell services when new handsets are shipped, or our mobile subscribers upgrade to a new handset, or if we miss a key selling period, either because the introduction of a new handset is delayed or we do not deploy our services in time, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. Our industry is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity and timing of release of music and the mobile handsets on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of mobile subscribers of our services. Mobile services providers rely on mobile operators' networks to deliver services to mobile subscribers and on their or other third parties' billing systems to track and account for the downloading of their services. In certain circumstances, mobile services providers may also rely on their own servers to deliver services on demand to mobile subscribers through their mobile operators' networks. Any failure of, or technical problem with, mobile operators', third parties' or our billing systems, delivery systems, information systems or communications networks could result in the inability of mobile subscribers to download our services, prevent the completion of, or result in errors related to, billing, or interfere with access to some aspects of our services. If any of these systems fail or if there is an interruption in the supply of power, an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or an act of war or terrorism, mobile subscribers might be unable to access our services. For example, from time to 21 Table of Contents time, our mobile operators have experienced failures with their billing and delivery systems and communication networks, including gateway failures that reduced the provisioning capacity of their branded e-commerce system. Any failure of, or technical problem with, the mobile operators', other third parties' or our systems could cause us to lose mobile subscribers or revenues, or incur substantial repair costs or damages, and distract management from operating our business. This, in turn, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. A shift of technology platform by mobile operators and mobile handset manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our services, increase our costs and cause our services to be of lower quality or to be launched later than anticipated. Mobile subscribers must have a mobile handset with multimedia capabilities enabled by technologies capable of running third-party services and related applications such as ours. If one or more of these technologies fall out of favor with handset manufacturers and mobile operators and there is a rapid shift to a technology platform such as Adobe Flash Lite, iPod, iPhone or Google Android or a new technology where we do not have development experience or resources, the development period for our services may be lengthened, increasing our costs, and the resulting services may be of lower quality, and may be launched later than anticipated. In such an event, our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. We may experience fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality. We may experience seasonality in our business as we expect sales to follow typical consumer buying patterns of mobile handsets as well as impacts from mobile operator customer advertising campaigns. These factors may result in increasing seasonality in our business and we cannot predict with accuracy how these factors will impact our quarterly financial results. Our business depends on the growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure. Our success will depend on the continued growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure in the United States and internationally. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable next-generation digital networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. Wireless communications infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of subscribers continues to increase, or if existing or future subscribers increase their bandwidth requirements. Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures, and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of wireless communications usage as well as our ability to distribute our services successfully. In addition, changes by a mobile operator to network infrastructure may interfere with downloads of our services and may cause subscribers to lose functionality in services that they have already downloaded. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If wireless subscribers do not continue to use their mobile handsets to access services and other applications, our business growth and future revenues would be adversely affected. We operate in a developing industry. Our success depends on growth in the number of wireless subscribers who use their handsets to access data services and, in particular, entertainment applications of the type we develop and distribute. New or different mobile entertainment applications, such as streaming video or music applications, developed by our current or future competitors may be preferred by subscribers to our services. In addition, other mobile platforms such as the iPod, iPhone and the Google Android platform, may become more widespread, and mobile subscribers may choose to switch to these platforms. If the market for our services does not continue to grow or we are unable to acquire new mobile subscribers, our business growth and future revenues would be adversely 22 Table of Contents affected. If mobile subscribers switch their entertainment spending away from the services and related applications that we publish or distribution where we do not have comparative strengths, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in mobile handsets or wireless networks could adversely affect our revenues. Maintaining the security of mobile handsets and wireless networks is critical for our business. There are individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other illicit code or malicious software programs that may attack wireless networks and handsets. Security experts have identified computer "worm" programs, such as "Cabir" and "Commwarrior.A," and viruses, such as "Lasco.A," that target handsets running on the Symbian operating system. Although these worms have not been widely released and do not present an immediate risk to our business, we believe future threats could lead some mobile subscribers to seek to return our services, reduce or delay future purchases of our services or reduce or delay the use of their handsets. Mobile operators and handset manufacturers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their wireless networks and mobile phone services from attack, which could delay adoption of new handset models. Any of these activities could adversely affect our revenues and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in government regulation of the media and wireless communications industries may adversely affect our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the media and wireless communications industries, including laws and regulations regarding customer privacy, taxation, services suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through mobile operators. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the media and wireless communications industries may lessen the growth of wireless communications services and may materially reduce our ability to increase or maintain sales of our services. A number of studies have examined the health effects of mobile phone use, and the results of some of the studies have been interpreted as evidence that mobile phone use causes adverse health effects. The establishment of a link between the use of mobile phone services and health problems, or any media reports suggesting such a link, could increase government regulation of, and reduce demand for, mobile phones and, accordingly, the demand for our services, and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 