Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and under “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” before making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. If any such risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Industry The convenience store industry is highly competitive and impacted by new entrants. The industry and geographic areas in which we operate are highly competitive and marked by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering the products and services found in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, gasoline stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, club stores, out of channel retailers and mass merchants. In recent years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have impacted the convenience store industry by entering the gasoline retail business. These non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the motor fuels market and their market share is expected to grow. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors’ offerings and prices to ensure we offer a selection of convenience products and services consumers demand at competitive prices. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities and locations to remain competitive and drive customer traffic to our stores. Major competitive factors include, among others, location, ease of access, gasoline brands, pricing, product and service selections, customer service, store appearance, cleanliness and safety. Volatility of wholesale petroleum costs could impact our operating results. Over the past three fiscal years, our gasoline revenue accounted for approximately 72.7% of total revenues and our gasoline gross profit accounted for approximately 32.2% of total gross profit. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are marked by significant volatility. General political conditions, acts of war or 11 Table of Contents terrorism, and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East and South America, could significantly impact crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. In addition, the supply of gasoline and our wholesale purchase costs could be adversely impacted in the event of a shortage, which could result from, among other things, lack of capacity at United States oil refineries or the fact that our gasoline contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of gasoline. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower gasoline gross margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products could impact consumer demand for gasoline. This volatility makes it extremely difficult to predict the impact future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition. These factors could materially impact our gasoline gallon volume, gasoline gross profit and overall customer traffic, which in turn would impact our merchandise sales. Wholesale cost increases of tobacco products could impact our operating results. Sales of tobacco products have averaged approximately 7.5% of our total revenue over the past three fiscal years, and our tobacco gross profit accounted for approximately 13.8% of total gross profit for the same period. Significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs and tax increases on tobacco products, as well as national and local campaigns to discourage smoking in the United States, may have an adverse effect on unit demand for cigarettes. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic. Changes in consumer behavior, travel and tourism could impact our business. In the convenience store industry, customer traffic is generally driven by consumer preferences and spending trends, growth rates for automobile and truck traffic and trends in travel, tourism and weather. Changes in economic conditions generally or in the southeastern United States specifically could adversely impact consumer spending patterns and travel and tourism in our markets. Approximately 34.0% of our stores are located in coastal, resort or tourist destinations. Historically, travel and consumer behavior in such markets is more severely impacted by weak economic conditions. If visitors to resort or tourist locations decline due to economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, changes in discretionary consumer spending or otherwise, our sales could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Unfavorable weather conditions or other trends or developments in the southeastern United States could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our stores are located in the southeast region of the United States. Although the southeast region is generally known for its mild weather, the region is susceptible to severe storms including hurricanes, thunderstorms, extended periods of rain, ice storms and heavy snow, all of which we have historically experienced. Inclement weather conditions as well as severe storms in the southeast region could damage our facilities or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel and convenience store traffic patterns as well as our ability to operate our locations. In addition, we typically generate higher revenues and gross margins during warmer weather months in the Southeast, which fall within our third and fourth fiscal quarters. If weather conditions are not favorable during these periods, our operating results and cash flow from operations could be adversely affected. We would also be impacted by regional occurrences in the southeastern United States such as energy shortages or increases in energy prices, fires or other natural disasters. Inability to identify, acquire and integrate new stores could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. An important part of our historical growth strategy has been to acquire other convenience stores that complement our existing stores or broaden our geographic presence. Since 1996, we have successfully completed 12 Table of Contents and integrated more than 70 acquisitions, growing our store base from 379 to 1,493 stores. We expect to continue to selectively review acquisition opportunities as an element of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ significantly from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: • We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire additional convenience stores on favorable terms. We compete with others to acquire convenience stores. We believe that this competition may increase and could result in decreased availability or increased prices for suitable acquisition candidates. It may be difficult to anticipate the timing and availability of acquisition candidates. • During the acquisition process we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of companies or businesses which we acquire. These liabilities may result from a prior owner’s noncompliance with applicable federal, state or local laws. • We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions. • We may fail to successfully integrate or manage acquired convenience stores. • Acquired convenience stores may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate. • We face the risk that our existing systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources will need to grow to support significant growth. Our substantial indebtedness could negatively impact our financial health. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of September 28, 2006, we had consolidated debt, including lease finance obligations, of approximately $848.4 million. As of September 28, 2006, our availability under our senior credit facility for borrowing was approximately $104.2 million (approximately $44.2 million of which was available for issuance of letters of credit). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt and our leases; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets or renovate our stores; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. 13 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to increases in interest rates because the debt under our senior credit facility is subject to a variable interest rate. Although in the past we have on occasion entered into certain hedging instruments in an effort to manage our interest rate risk, we may not be able to continue to do so, on favorable terms or at all, in the future. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, we could default on those obligations. In addition, the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our senior credit facility, which includes a term loan and a revolving credit facility, contains financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which would adversely affect our financial health and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur additional debt. This could further increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries are able to incur additional indebtedness. The terms of the indenture that governs our senior subordinated notes permit us to incur additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. The indenture governing our convertible notes does not contain any limit on our ability to incur debt. In addition, our senior credit facility permits us to incur additional indebtedness (assuming certain financial conditions are met at the time) beyond the $150.0 million under our revolving credit facility. If we and our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face could increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including without limitation any payments required to be made to holders of our senior subordinated notes and our convertible notes, and to refinance our indebtedness and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. For example, upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” (as such term is defined in the indenture governing our convertible notes), holders of our convertible notes have the right to require us to purchase for cash all outstanding convertible notes at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including additional interest (if any), up to but not including the date of purchase. We also may be required to make substantial cash payments upon other conversion events related to the convertible notes. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain third-party financing to satisfy these obligations at the time we are required to make purchases of tendered notes. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional equity financing or seek third-party financing to satisfy such obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to fund indebtedness obligations at any time could constitute an event of default under the instruments governing such indebtedness, which would likely trigger a cross-default under our other outstanding debt. 14 Table of Contents If we do not comply with the covenants in our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes or otherwise default under them or the indenture governing our convertible notes, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due. Our senior credit facility and indenture governing our senior subordinated notes require us to comply with certain covenants. In particular, our senior credit facility prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness except in specified circumstances or materially amending the terms of any agreement relating to existing indebtedness without lender approval. Further, our senior credit facility restricts our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers or reorganizations, pay dividends, or make investments. Other restrictive covenants require that we meet fixed charge coverage and leverage tests, as defined in the senior credit facility agreement. A violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under the senior credit facility. If we default on our senior credit facility or either of the indentures governing our outstanding subordinated indebtedness because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts, and any acceleration of amounts due under our senior credit facility or either of the indentures governing our outstanding indebtedness likely would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to state and federal environmental and other regulations. Our business is subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations including, but not limited to, environmental regulations, employment laws and regulations, regulations governing the sale of alcohol and tobacco, minimum wage requirements, working condition requirements, public accessibility requirements, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. A violation or change of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may, as the owner or operator of our locations, be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at these or our former locations, whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. The failure to properly remediate such contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. Additionally, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at sites where they are located, whether or not such site is owned or operated by such person. Although we do not typically arrange for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, we may be deemed to have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as other related costs, including governmental fines, and injuries to persons, property and natural resources. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tanks may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. We pay tank registration fees and other taxes to state trust funds established in our operating areas and maintain private insurance coverage in Florida and Georgia in support of future remediation obligations. These state trust funds or other responsible third parties including insurers are expected to pay or reimburse us for remediation expenses less a deductible. To the extent third parties do not pay for remediation as we anticipate, we will be obligated to make these payments. These payments could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reimbursements from state trust funds will be dependent on the maintenance and continued solvency of the various funds. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing or acquired locations. We cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; that material environmental conditions not known to us do 15 Table of Contents not exist; that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on us; or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our locations. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental laws, ordinances or regulations or an increase in regulations could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol and tobacco products. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. In addition, certain states regulate relationships, including overlapping ownership, among alcohol manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers, and may deny or revoke licensure if relationships in violation of the state laws exist. We are not aware of any alcoholic beverage manufacturers or wholesalers having a prohibited relationship with our company. Any appreciable increase in the statutory minimum wage rate, income or overtime pay, or adoption of mandated healthcare benefits would result in an increase in our labor costs. Such cost increases, or the penalties for failing to comply with such statutory minimums, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, regulations are proposed which, if adopted, could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on one principal supplier for the majority of our merchandise. We purchase over 50% of our general merchandise, including most tobacco products and grocery items, from a single wholesale grocer, McLane Company, Inc. We have a contract with McLane until April 2010, but we may not be able to renew the contract upon expiration. A change of suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with our principal suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, cost of goods sold, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on two principal suppliers for the majority of our gasoline. BP® and Citgo® supply approximately 82% of our gasoline purchases. We have contracts with Citgo® until 2010 and BP® until 2012, but we may not be able to renew either contract upon expiration. A change of suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with our principal suppliers could materially increase our cost of goods sold, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Because we depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, we would be adversely affected if senior management left The Pantry. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Peter J. Sodini. Mr. Sodini’s employment contract terminates in September 2009. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain additional qualified senior personnel as needed in the future. In addition, we do not maintain key personnel life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. We also rely on our ability to recruit store managers, regional managers and other store personnel. If we fail to continue to attract these individuals, our operating results may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Pending litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are party to various legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. We believe these actions are routine in nature and incidental to the operation of our business. While the outcome of these actions cannot be predicted with certainty, management’s present judgment is that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or prospects. If, however, our assessment of these actions is inaccurate, or there are any significant adverse developments in these actions, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other related issues could result in significant liabilities or litigation costs and cause consumers to avoid our convenience stores. Convenience store businesses and other food service operators can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government agencies resulting from food quality, illness, or other health or environmental concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more locations. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from purchasing gasoline, merchandise or food service at one or more of our convenience stores. We could also incur significant liabilities if a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us or litigation costs regardless of results, and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. Pending SEC matters could adversely affect us. As previously disclosed, on July 28, 2005, we announced that we would restate earnings for the period from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2005 arising from sale-leaseback accounting for certain transactions. In connection with our decision to restate, we filed a Form 8-K on July 28, 2005. The SEC issued a comment letter to us in connection with the Form 8-K, and we responded to the comments. Beginning in September 2005, we received from the SEC requests that we voluntarily provide certain information to the SEC Staff in connection with our sale-leaseback accounting, our decision to restate our financial statements with respect to sale-leaseback accounting and other lease accounting matters. In November 2006, the SEC informed us that in connection with the inquiry it had issued a formal order of private investigation. As previously disclosed, we are cooperating with the SEC in this ongoing investigation. We are unable to predict how long this investigation will continue or whether it will result in any adverse action. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related new rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, Nasdaq and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These new laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as regulatory and governing bodies provide new guidance, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. For example, during management’s fiscal 2005 Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 17 Table of Contents assessment, two material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting were identified. These material weaknesses resulted in a more than remote risk that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected. We have devoted significant resources to remediate our deficiencies and improve our internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting and addressed the concerns that gave rise to the material weaknesses in fiscal 2005, we are continuing to work to improve our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Other Risks Future sales of additional shares into the market may depress the market price of our common stock. If we or our existing stockholders sell shares of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, or if the market perceives such sales or issuances could occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of December 8, 2006, there are 22,687,240 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 22,432,241 shares are freely tradable (unless held by one of our affiliates). Pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, during any three-month period our affiliates can resell up to the greater of (a) 1% of our aggregate outstanding common stock or (b) the average weekly trading volume for the four weeks prior to the sale. Sales by our existing stockholders also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate or to use equity as consideration for future acquisitions. In addition, we have filed registration statements with the SEC that cover up to 5,100,000 shares issuable pursuant to the exercise of stock options granted and to be granted under our stock option plans. Shares registered on a registration statement may be sold freely at any time after issuance. Any issuance of shares of our common stock in the future could have a dilutive effect on your investment. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for capital at that time. In other circumstances, we may issue shares of our common stock pursuant to existing agreements or arrangements. For example, upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes, we may, at our option, issue shares of our common stock. In addition, if our convertible notes are converted in connection with a change of control, we may be required to deliver additional shares by increasing the conversion rate with respect to such notes. Notwithstanding the requirement to issue additional shares if convertible notes are converted on a change of control, the maximum conversion rate for our outstanding convertible notes is 25.4517 per $1,000 principal amount of convertible notes. We have also issued warrants to purchase up to 2,993,000 shares of our common stock to an affiliate of Merrill Lynch in connection with the note hedge and warrant transactions entered into at the time of our offering of convertible notes. Raising funds by issuing securities dilutes the ownership of our existing stockholders. Additionally, certain types of equity securities that we may issue in the future could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to your rights as a holder of our common stock. We could choose to issue additional shares for a variety of reasons including for investment or acquisitive purposes. Such issuances may have a dilutive impact on your investment. 18 Table of Contents The market price for our common stock has been and may in the future be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. There currently is a public market for our common stock, but there is no assurance that there will always be such a market. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could significantly affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors among others: • A deviation in our results from the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • Statements by research analysts about our common stock, our company or our industry; • Changes in market valuations of companies in our industry and market evaluations of our industry generally; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Actions taken by our competitors; • Sales or other issuances of common stock by the company, senior officers or other affiliates; or • Other general economic, political or market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock will also be impacted by our quarterly operating results and quarterly comparable store sales growth, which may be expected to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may impact our quarterly results and comparable store sales include, among others, general regional and national economic conditions, competition, unexpected costs and changes in pricing, consumer trends, the number of stores we open and/or close during any given period, costs of compliance with corporate governance and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and other factors discussed in “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” You may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you pay. Our charter includes provisions that may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change in control and adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation gives our board of directors the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of the preferred stock, without obtaining stockholder approval. The existence of this preferred stock could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of The Pantry by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Furthermore, this preferred stock could be issued with other rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock, and, therefore, issuance of the preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have no present plans to issue any shares of our preferred stock. Other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or hinder a change in management even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation makes us subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In general, Section 203 prohibits publicly-held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock. 19 Table of Contents These governance provisions could affect the market price of our common stock. We may, in the future, adopt other measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited takeover, even if such a change in control were at a premium price or favored by a majority of unaffiliated stockholders. These measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 