Item 1A. Risk Factors Our home sales and operating revenues could decline due to macro-economic and other factors outside of our control, such as changes in consumer confidence, declines in employment levels and increases in the quantity and decreases in the price of new homes and resale homes in the market. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live, may result in more caution on the part of homebuyers and, consequently, fewer home purchases. These economic uncertainties involve, among other things, conditions of supply and demand in local markets and changes in consumer confidence and income, employment levels, and government regulations. These risks and uncertainties could periodically have an adverse effect on consumer demand for and the pricing of our homes, which could cause our operating revenues to decline. Additional reductions in our revenues could, in turn, further negatively affect the market price of our securities. 15 The homebuilding industry is experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Most housing markets across the United States continue to be characterized by an oversupply of both new and resale home inventory, reduced levels of consumer demand for new homes, increased cancellation rates, aggressive price competition among homebuilders and increased incentives for home sales. As a result of these factors, we, like many other homebuilders, have experienced a material reduction in revenues and margins. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and, in the near term, these conditions may further deteriorate. The Company expects that continued weakness in the homebuilding market will adversely affect its business, results of operations and stockholders’ equity as compared to prior periods and could result in additional inventory and goodwill impairments in the future. In addition, we have been experiencing a significant increase in the number of cancellations by customers. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but have not yet delivered the home. Although these sales contracts typically require a cash deposit and do not make the sale contingent on the sale of the customer’s existing home, in some cases a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit as a result of local laws or as a matter of our business practices. If home prices decline, interest rates increase or if there is a national or local economic decline, homebuyers may have an incentive to cancel their contracts with us, even where they might be entitled to no refund or only a partial refund. Significant cancellations have had, and could have, a material adverse effect on our business as a result of lost sales revenue and the accumulation of unsold housing inventory. In particular, our cancellation rates for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 were 68% and 41%, respectively. It is important to note that both backlog and cancellation metrics are operational, rather than accounting data, and should be used only as a general gauge to evaluate performance. There is an inherent imprecision in these metrics based on an evaluation of qualitative factors during the transaction cycle. Based on our impairment tests and consideration of the current and expected future market conditions, we recorded inventory impairment charges of $488.9 million, lot option abandonment charges of $122.9 million and non-cash goodwill impairment charges totaling $52.8 million during fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2007, we also wrote down our investment in certain of our joint ventures reflecting $28.6 million of impairments of inventory held within those ventures and $3.4 million of contractual obligation abandonments. While we believe that no additional goodwill, joint venture investment or inventory impairments existed as of September 30, 2007, future economic or financial developments, including general interest rate increases, poor performance in either the national economy or individual local economies, or our ability to meet our projections could lead to future impairments. The current disruption in the availability of mortgage financing is expected to continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. Substantially all purchasers of our homes finance their acquisition with mortgage financing. The U.S. residential mortgage market is experiencing serious disruption due to deterioration in the credit quality of loans originated to non-prime and subprime borrowers, an increase in mortgage foreclosure rates and the recent failure of numerous lending institutions. These difficulties are not expected to improve until residential real estate inventories return to a more normal level and the mortgage credit market stabilizes. This disruption has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, the Company’s business and results of operation as compared to prior periods. 16 We are the subject of ongoing governmental criminal and civil investigations and pending civil litigation which could result in criminal charges and could require us to pay substantial fines, damages or other penalties or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We and our subsidiary, Beazer Mortgage Corporation, are under criminal and civil investigations by the United States Attorney’s office in the Western District of North Carolina, the SEC and other federal and state agencies. We and certain of our current and former employees, officers and directors have been named as defendants in securities class action lawsuits, lawsuits regarding Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) claims, and derivative shareholder actions. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries have been named in class action and multi-party lawsuits regarding claims made by homebuyers. We cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcome of the investigations or the lawsuits or the effect that any adverse findings in the investigations or adverse determinations in the lawsuits may have on us. While we are cooperating with the investigations, developments, including the expansion of the scope of the investigations, could negatively impact us, could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from the operation of our business, and/or result in further departures of executives or other employees. An unfavorable determination resulting from any investigation could result in the filing of criminal charges or the payment of substantial criminal or civil fines, the imposition of injunctions on our conduct or the imposition of other penalties or consequences, including but not limited to the Company having to adjust, curtail or terminate the conduct of certain of our business operations. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable determination in any of the lawsuits could result in the payment by us of substantial monetary damages which may not be fully covered by insurance. Further, the legal costs associated with the investigations and the lawsuits and the amount of time required to be spent by management and the Board of Directors on these matters, even if we are ultimately successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to expenses incurred to defend the Company in these matters, under Delaware law and our bylaws, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters. Our insurance carriers may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to certain of the pending investigations or lawsuits, or we may not have sufficient coverage under such policies. If the insurance companies are successful in rescinding or denying coverage or if we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face risks relating to our ineffective internal controls. As a result of our review of issues identified during the recently completed independent investigation initiated by the Audit Committee, as well as our internal review, management has identified several deficiencies in our control environment that constitute material weaknesses and, consequently, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 30, 2007. In addition, management has concluded, based primarily on the identification of the material weaknesses, that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at September 30, 2007. See Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures. If we are unable to successfully remediate these material weaknesses in a timely manner, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future, and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. In addition, we are in the process of developing and implementing a full work plan for remediation of all of the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal 2008. Until our remediation efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, and we will continue to incur the expenses associated with the additional procedures and resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Continuing negative publicity may adversely affect our business. As a result of the various ongoing investigations and litigation discussed herein and the issues relating thereto, we have been the subject of continuing negative publicity. This negative publicity has contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities. We believe this negative publicity has also discouraged and may continue to discourage a number of potential homebuyers from purchasing a home from us. In addition, the negative publicity has adversely affected our relationships with certain of our partners, such as land sellers, contractors and suppliers. Continuing negative publicity could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our publicly traded securities. 17 We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could hinder our business strategy and impose additional costs of identifying and training new individuals. Competition for qualified personnel in all of our operating markets is intense. As a result of the various ongoing investigations and litigation discussed herein and the uncertainty of our future prospects, we have lost several key employees of our Company. We also believe that these circumstances have adversely affected morale and could lead to additional employee turnover. In light of these ongoing matters, we have experienced some difficulty in attracting qualified individuals to replace the employees we have lost. Recent and potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Each of S&P, Moody’s and Fitch has recently decreased its rating or outlook with respect to our long-term unsecured debt. Specifically, on February 15, 2008, S&P decreased its rating from B+ to B and maintained its negative outlook (which had been revised from stable on March 28, 2007). S&P had placed the Company’s corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings on negative credit watch on August 14, 2007. On March 26, 2008, Moody’s lowered its rating from B1 to B2 and maintained its negative outlook. On March 5, 2008, Fitch lowered the Company’s issuer-default rating from BB- to B+, convertible senior notes to B from BB-, and its junior subordinated debt to CCC+ from B. The rating agencies announced that these downgrades reflect deterioration in our homebuilding operations, credit metrics and other earnings-based metrics and their outlook for our future earnings, as well as possible distractions resulting from the ongoing investigations described elsewhere herein. These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. Our credit ratings could be further lowered or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have not been timely in our Exchange Act reporting. Although we have now filed all of our fiscal 2007 Exchange Act filings with the SEC, we failed to timely file with the SEC our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. Until we are timely in our filings for a period of 12 months (anticipated mid 2009), we will be precluded from registering any securities with the SEC on Form S-3. As a result, our ability to access the capital markets may be constrained, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Our revolving credit facility, bonds and certain other debt impose significant restrictions and obligations on us. Restrictions on our ability to borrow could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our growth and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations. Our revolving credit facility imposes significant restrictions and obligations on us. Under this facility, we are required to meet certain financial tests, including a minimum consolidated tangible net worth, a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum land inventory ratio and, under certain circumstances, minimum liquidity. In addition, we must comply with other covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of liens, secured debt, investments, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, mergers and other matters. Any failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility. Any such event of default, any other default or any failure of our representations and warranties in the credit agreement to be correct in all material respects on the date of a proposed borrowing would also prohibit our ability to make borrowings under the revolving credit facility and could negatively impact other covenants or lead to defaults under certain of our other debt. We have in the past needed waivers and amendments under this facility with respect to financial covenants and the accuracy of representations of warranties made when we borrow under the facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any future waivers or amendments that may become necessary without significant additional cost or at all. 18 As of September 30, 2007, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.9 billion, net of unamortized discount of approximately $3.0 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us and the holders of our securities, including, among other things: ● causing us to be unable to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements; ● making us more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions; ● making it difficult to fund future working capital, land purchases, acquisitions, share repurchases, general corporate purposes or other purposes; and ● causing us to be limited in our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business. In addition, subject to restrictions in our existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness. On October 10, 2007, we entered into a waiver and amendment of our revolving credit facility. Under this and an October 26, 2007 amendment, borrowings under the revolving credit facility are secured by certain assets and our ability to borrow under this facility is subject to satisfaction of a secured borrowing base. We are permitted to grow the borrowing base by adding additional cash and/or real estate as collateral securing the revolving credit facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our growth plans and our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness, will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to enter into additional debt and/or equity financings. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to do any of the foregoing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing may reduce consumer demand for our homes. A substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing would adversely affect the ability of prospective first-time and move-up homebuyers to obtain financing for our homes, as well as adversely affect the ability of prospective move-up homebuyers to sell their current homes. As a result, our margins, revenues and cash flows may also be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in competing against our homebuilding competitors, our market share could decline or our growth could be impaired and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. Competition in the homebuilding industry is intense, and there are relatively low barriers to entry into our business. Increased competition could hurt our business, as it could prevent us from acquiring attractive parcels of land on which to build homes or make such acquisitions more expensive, hinder our market share expansion, and lead to pricing pressures on our homes that may adversely impact our margins and revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results could suffer and the value of, or our ability to service, our debt could be adversely affected. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are superior or substantially similar to our products. Furthermore, some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and lower costs of funds than we do. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We currently build in several of the top markets in the nation and, therefore, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. Our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity may be adversely affected by any decrease in the value of our inventory, as well as by the associated carrying costs. We regularly acquire land for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our existing and new markets. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. The market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. When market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, previously entered into option agreements may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and preacquisition costs and terminate the agreements. During fiscal 2007, as a result of the further deterioration of the housing market and our strategic decision related to projects which no longer met our internal investment standards, we determined that the carrying amount of certain of our inventory assets exceeded their estimated fair value. As a result of our analysis, during fiscal 2007, we incurred $488.9 million of non-cash pre-tax charges related to inventory impairments. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, we may have to incur additional inventory impairment charges which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity. 19 We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. We participate in land development joint ventures (“JVs”) in which we have less than a controlling interest. We have entered into JVs in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. Our JVs are typically entered into with developers, other homebuilders and financial partners to develop finished lots for sale to the joint venture’s members and other third parties. As a result of the deterioration of the housing market in fiscal 2007, we wrote down our investment in certain of our JVs reflecting $28.6 million of impairments of inventory held within those JVs and $3.4 million of contractual obligation abandonments. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, we may have to take further writedowns of our investments in these JVs. Our joint venture investments are generally very illiquid both because we lack a controlling interest in the JVs and because most of our JVs are structured to require super-majority or unanimous approval of the members to sell a substantial portion of the JV’s assets or for a member to receive a return of their invested capital. Our lack of a controlling interest also results in the risk that the JV will take actions that we disagree with, or fail to take actions that we desire, including actions regarding the sale of the underlying property. Our JVs typically obtain secured acquisition, development and construction financing. At September 30, 2007, our unconsolidated JVs had borrowings totaling $785.4 million, of which $450.6 million related to one joint venture in which we are a 2.58% partner. In some instances, we and our joint venture partners have provided varying levels of guarantees of debt of our unconsolidated JVs. At September 30, 2007, these guarantees included, for certain, joint ventures, construction completion guarantees, loan-to-value maintenance agreements, repayment guarantees and environmental indemnities. At September 30, 2007, we had repayment guarantees of $42.3 million and loan-to-value maintenance guarantees of $7.7 million of debt of unconsolidated joint ventures (see Notes 3 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As the housing market has deteriorated, it has become more likely that our guarantees may be called upon. If one or more of these guarantees were drawn upon or otherwise invoked, our obligations could be significant, individually or in the aggregate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We cannot guarantee that such events will not occur or that such obligations will not be invoked. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. We currently believe that we are likely to have sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the benefit of all of our deferred tax assets (consisting primarily of inventory valuation adjustments, reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible for tax purposes, as well as operating loss carryforwards from losses we incurred during fiscal 2007). However, some or all of these deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to take advantage of them or we enter into transactions that limit our right to use them. If it became more likely than not that deferred tax assets would expire unused, we would have to record a valuation allowance to reflect this fact, which could materially increase our income tax expense, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which it is recorded. 20 We could experience a reduction in home sales and revenues or reduced cash flows due to our inability to acquire land for our housing developments if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing to support our homebuilding activities. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive, and homebuilding requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding activities. If internally generated funds and borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including additional bank financing and/or securities offerings. The amount and types of indebtedness which we may incur are limited by the terms of our existing debt. In addition, the availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced nationally, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures, we may be unable to acquire land for our housing developments. Additionally, if we cannot obtain additional financing to fund the purchase of land under our option contracts, we may incur contractual penalties and fees. We are subject to extensive government regulation which could cause us to incur significant liabilities or restrict our business activities. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and operating expenses and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to local, state and federal statutes and rules regulating, among other things, certain developmental matters, building and site design, and matters concerning the protection of health and the environment. Our operating expenses may be increased by governmental regulations such as building permit allocation ordinances and impact and other fees and taxes, which may be imposed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. Other governmental regulations, such as building moratoriums and “no growth” or “slow growth” initiatives, which may be adopted in communities which have developed rapidly, may cause delays in home projects or otherwise restrict our business activities resulting in reductions in our revenues. Any delay or refusal from government agencies to grant us necessary licenses, permits and approvals could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may incur additional operating expenses due to compliance programs or fines, penalties and remediation costs pertaining to environmental regulations within our markets. We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given community vary greatly according to the community site, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former use of the site. Environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to implement time consuming and expensive compliance programs and may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. From time to time, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and similar federal or state agencies review homebuilders’ compliance with environmental laws and may levy fines and penalties for failure to strictly comply with applicable environmental laws or impose additional requirements for future compliance as a result of past failures. Any such actions taken with respect to us may increase our costs. Further, we expect that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on homebuilders in the future. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials such as lumber. Our projects in California are especially susceptible to restrictive government regulations and environmental laws. We may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of construction defect, product liability and warranty claims made against us. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. We and certain of our subsidiaries have been, and continue to be, named as defendants in various construction defect claims, product liability claims, complaints and other legal actions that include claims related to moisture intrusion. Furthermore, plaintiffs may in certain of these legal proceedings seek class action status with potential class sizes that vary from case to case. Class action lawsuits can be costly to defend, and if we were to lose any certified class action suit, it could result in substantial potential liability for us. 21 With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defect, moisture intrusion and related claims and product liability, interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. Although we have obtained insurance for construction defect claims subject to applicable self-insurance retentions, such policies may not be available or adequate to cover any liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding current claims, and future claims may arise out of uninsurable events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. Our operating expenses could increase if we are required to pay higher insurance premiums or litigation costs for various claims, which could cause our net income to decline. The costs of insuring against construction defect, product liability and director and officer claims are high. This coverage may become more costly or more restricted in the future. Increasingly in recent years, lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) have been filed against builders, asserting claims of personal injury and property damage. Our insurance may not cover all of the claims, including personal injury claims, arising from moisture intrusion, or such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could reduce our net income and restrict our cash flow available to service debt. Historically, builders have recovered from subcontractors and their insurance carriers a significant portion of the construction defect liabilities and costs of defense that the builders have incurred. Insurance coverage available to subcontractors for construction defects is becoming increasingly expensive, and the scope of coverage is restricted. If we cannot effectively recover from our subcontractors or their carriers, we may suffer greater losses which could decrease our net income. A builder’s ability to recover against any available insurance policy depends upon the continued solvency and financial strength of the insurance carrier that issued the policy. Many of the states in which we build homes have lengthy statutes of limitations applicable to claims for construction defects. To the extent that any carrier providing insurance coverage to us or our subcontractors becomes insolvent or experiences financial difficulty in the future, we may be unable to recover on those policies, and our net income may decline. We are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our subcontractors, which, if unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We conduct our construction operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all construction work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the construction of our homes. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in the markets in which we operate. In addition, inadequate subcontractor resources could have a material adverse effect on our business. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Our operating results in a future quarter or quarters may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors and, as a result, the market value of our common stock will fluctuate. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and net earnings on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of both national and local factors, including, among others: ● the timing of home closings and land sales; ● our ability to continue to acquire additional land or secure option contracts to acquire land on acceptable terms; ● conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy; ● raw material and labor shortages; ● seasonal homebuying patterns; and ● other changes in operating expenses, including the cost of labor and raw materials, personnel and general economic conditions. 22 The occurrence of natural disasters could increase our operating expenses and reduce our revenues and cash flows. The climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate, including California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, our homes under construction or our building lots in such states could be damaged or destroyed, which may result in losses exceeding our insurance coverage. Any of these events could increase our operating expenses, impair our cash flows and reduce our revenues, which could, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our securities. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the armed conflict with Iraq, may cause disruption to the economy, our Company, our employees and our customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 