Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and under “Part II.—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” before making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. If any such risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Industry The convenience store industry is highly competitive and impacted by new entrants. Increased competition could result in lower margins. The convenience store industry in the geographic areas in which we operate is highly competitive and marked by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering the products and services found in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, independently owned convenience stores, gasoline stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, club stores, out of channel retailers and mass merchants. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors’ offerings and prices to ensure we offer a selection of convenience products and services at competitive prices to meet consumer demand. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities and locations to remain competitive and drive customer traffic to our stores. Major competitive factors include, among others, location, ease of access, gasoline brands, pricing, product and service selections, customer service, store appearance, cleanliness and safety. In a number of our markets, our competitors that sell ethanol-blended gasoline may have a competitive advantage over us because, in certain regions of the country, the wholesale cost of ethanol-blended gasoline is less than pure gasoline. Competitive pressures or our inability to introduce ethanol-blended gasoline in certain markets in a timely manner or at all could materially impact our gasoline gallon volume, gasoline gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Volatility of wholesale petroleum costs could impact our operating results. Over the past three fiscal years, our gasoline revenue accounted for approximately 75.8% of total revenues and our gasoline gross profit accounted for approximately 31.7% of total gross profit. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are volatile. General political conditions, acts of war or terrorism and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East and South America, could significantly impact crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. In addition, the supply of gasoline and our wholesale purchase costs could be adversely impacted in the event of a shortage, which could result from, among other things, lack of capacity at United States oil refineries or the fact that our gasoline contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of gasoline. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower gasoline gross margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products could impact consumer demand for gasoline. This volatility makes it extremely difficult to predict the impact future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition. Dramatic increases in crude oil prices squeeze retail fuel margins because fuel costs typically increase faster than retailers are able to pass them along to customers. Higher fuel prices also trigger higher credit card expenses, because credit card fees are calculated as a percentage of the transaction amount, not as a percentage of gasoline gallons sold. A significant change in any of these factors could materially impact our gasoline gallon volume, gasoline gross profit and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Wholesale cost increases of, and tax increases on, tobacco products could adversely impact our operating results. Sales of tobacco products have averaged approximately 6.7% of our total revenue over the past three fiscal years, and our tobacco gross profit accounted for approximately 13.0% of total gross profit for the same period. Significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs and tax increases on tobacco products, as well as national and local campaigns to discourage smoking in the United States, may have an adverse effect on demand for cigarettes. Currently, major cigarette manufacturers offer substantial rebates to retailers. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are no longer offered, or decreased, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase accordingly. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. In addition, reduced retail display allowances on cigarettes offered by cigarette manufacturers negatively impact gross margins. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in consumer behavior, travel and tourism could impact our business. In the convenience store industry, customer traffic is generally driven by consumer preferences and spending trends, growth rates for automobile and commercial truck traffic and trends in travel, tourism and weather. Changes in economic conditions generally or in the southeastern United States specifically could adversely impact consumer spending patterns and travel and tourism in our markets. Approximately 32% of our stores are located in coastal, resort or tourist destinations. Historically, travel and consumer behavior in such markets is more severely impacted by weak economic conditions. If visitors to resort or tourist locations decline due to economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, changes in discretionary consumer spending or otherwise, our sales could decline which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Unfavorable weather conditions or other trends or developments in the southeastern United States could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our stores are located in the southeastern United States. Although the southeast region is generally known for its mild weather, the region is susceptible to severe storms including hurricanes, thunderstorms, extended periods of rain, ice storms and heavy snow, all of which we have historically experienced. Inclement weather conditions as well as severe storms in the southeast region could damage our facilities, our suppliers or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel and convenience store traffic patterns, as well as our ability to operate our locations. In addition, we typically generate higher revenues and gross margins during warmer weather months in the Southeast, which fall within our third and fourth fiscal quarters. If weather conditions are not favorable during these periods, our operating results and cash flow from operations could be adversely affected. We could also be impacted by regional occurrences in the southeastern United States such as energy shortages or increases in energy prices, fires or other natural disasters. Inability to identify, acquire and integrate new stores could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. An important part of our historical growth strategy has been to acquire other convenience stores that complement our existing stores or broaden our geographic presence. Since 1996, we have successfully completed and integrated more than 90 acquisitions, growing our store base from 379 to 1,644 stores. We expect to continue to selectively review acquisition opportunities as an element of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ significantly from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: • We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire additional convenience stores on favorable terms. We compete with others to acquire convenience stores. We believe that this competition may increase and could result in decreased availability or increased prices for suitable acquisition candidates. It may be difficult to anticipate the timing and availability of acquisition candidates. • During the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of companies or businesses that we acquire. These liabilities may result from a prior owner’s noncompliance with applicable federal, state or local laws or regulations. • We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions. • We may fail to successfully integrate or manage acquired convenience stores. • Acquired convenience stores may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate. • We face the risk that our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources will need to grow to support future growth. Our indebtedness could negatively impact our financial health. As of September 27, 2007, we had consolidated debt, including lease finance obligations, of approximately $1.2 billion. As of September 27, 2007, the availability under our revolving credit facility for borrowing was approximately $168.3 million (approximately $63.3 million of which was available for issuance of letters of credit). 13 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt and our leases; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, including lease finance obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets or renovate our stores; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. We are vulnerable to increases in interest rates because the debt under our senior credit facility is subject to a variable interest rate. Although in the past we have on occasion entered into certain hedging instruments in an effort to manage our interest rate risk, we may not be able to continue to do so, on favorable terms or at all, in the future. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, we could default on those obligations. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, each contains financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which would adversely affect our financial health and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur additional debt. This could further increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We are able to incur additional indebtedness. The terms of the indenture that governs our senior subordinated notes permit us to incur additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. The indenture governing our senior subordinated convertible notes, or convertible notes, does not contain any limit on our ability to incur debt. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility permits us to incur up to $100.0 million under the delayed draw term loan facility and other additional indebtedness (assuming certain financial conditions are met at the time) beyond the $225.0 million under our revolving credit facility. If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including without limitation any payments required to be made to holders of our senior subordinated notes and our convertible notes, and to refinance our indebtedness and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 14 Table of Contents For example, upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” (as such term is defined in the indenture governing our convertible notes), holders of our convertible notes have the right to require us to purchase for cash all outstanding convertible notes at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including additional interest (if any), up to but not including the date of purchase. We also may be required to make substantial cash payments upon other conversion events related to the convertible notes. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain third-party financing to satisfy these obligations at the time we are required to make purchases of tendered notes. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional equity financing or seek third-party financing to satisfy such obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to fund indebtedness obligations at any time could constitute an event of default under the instruments governing such indebtedness, which would likely trigger a cross-default under our other outstanding debt. If we do not comply with the covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes or otherwise default under them or the indenture governing our convertible notes, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due. The credit agreement governing our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes require us to comply with certain covenants. In particular, our credit agreement prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness except in specified circumstances or materially amending the terms of any agreement relating to existing indebtedness without lender approval. Further, our credit agreement restricts our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers or reorganizations, pay dividends, or make investments or capital expenditures. Other restrictive covenants require that we meet a maximum total adjusted leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, as defined in our credit agreement. A violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under our credit agreement. If we default on the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility or either of the indentures governing our senior subordinated or convertible notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts, and any acceleration of amounts due under our credit agreement or either of the indentures governing our outstanding indebtedness likely would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to state and federal environmental and other regulations. Failure to comply with these state and federal environmental and other regulations may result in penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations including, but not limited to, environmental regulations, employment laws and regulations, regulations governing the sale of alcohol and tobacco, minimum wage requirements, working condition requirements, public accessibility requirements, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. A violation or change of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may, as the owner or operator of our locations, be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at these or our former locations, 15 Table of Contents whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. The failure to properly remediate such contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. Additionally, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at sites where they are located, whether or not such site is owned or operated by such person. Although we do not typically arrange for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, we may be deemed to have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as other related costs, including governmental fines, and injuries to persons, property and natural resources. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tanks may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. We pay tank registration fees and other taxes to state trust funds established in our operating areas and maintain private insurance coverage in Florida and Georgia in support of future remediation obligations. These state trust funds or other responsible third parties including insurers are expected to pay or reimburse us for remediation expenses less a deductible. To the extent third parties do not pay for remediation as we anticipate, we will be obligated to make these payments. These payments could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reimbursements from state trust funds will be dependent on the maintenance and continued solvency of the various funds. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing or acquired locations. We cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; that material environmental conditions not known to us do not exist; that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on us; or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our locations. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental laws, ordinances or regulations or an increase in regulations could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Failure to comply with state laws regulating the sale of alcohol and tobacco products may result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of fines and penalties on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol and tobacco products. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. Such a loss or imposition could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain states regulate relationships, including overlapping ownership, among alcohol manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers, and may deny or revoke licensure if relationships in violation of the state laws exist. We are not aware of any alcoholic beverage manufacturers or wholesalers having a prohibited relationship with our company. Failure to comply with the other state and federal regulations we are subject to may result in penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various other state and federal regulations, including, without limitation, employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements and other laws and regulations. Any appreciable increase in the statutory minimum wage rate, income or overtime pay, or adoption of mandated healthcare benefits would likely result in an increase in our labor costs and such cost increase, or the penalties for failing to comply with such statutory minimums or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We depend on one principal supplier for the majority of our merchandise. A disruption in supply or a change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. We purchase over 50% of our general merchandise, including most tobacco products and grocery items, from a single wholesale grocer, McLane. We have a contract with McLane until April 2010, but we may not be able to renew the contract when it expires, or on similar terms. A change of merchandise suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with our principal merchandise suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, cost of goods sold, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on two principal suppliers for the majority of our gasoline. A disruption in supply or a change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. BP® and CITGO® supply approximately 76% of our gasoline purchases. We have contracts with CITGO® until 2010 and BP® until 2012, but we may not be able to renew either contract upon expiration. A change of suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with our principal suppliers could materially increase our cost of goods sold, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. CITGO® obtains a significant portion of the crude oil it refines from its ultimate parent, Petroleos de Venezuela, SA (“PDVSA”), which is owned and controlled by the government of Venezuela. The political and economic environment in Venezuela can disrupt PDVSA’s operations and adversely affect CITGO®’s ability to obtain crude oil. In addition, the Venezuelan government can order, and in the past has ordered, PDVSA to curtail the production of oil in response to a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to reduce production. The inability of CITGO® to obtain crude oil in sufficient quantities would adversely affect its ability to provide gasoline to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, we would be adversely affected if we were to lose any members of our senior management team. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Peter J. Sodini. Mr. Sodini’s employment contract terminates in September 2009. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain additional qualified senior personnel as needed in the future. In addition, we do not maintain key personnel life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. We also rely on our ability to recruit qualified store managers, regional managers and other store personnel. If we fail to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels, our operating results may be adversely affected. Pending litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are party to various legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. We believe these actions are routine in nature and incidental to the operation of our business. While the outcome of these actions cannot be predicted with certainty, management’s present judgment is that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or prospects. If, however, our assessment of these actions is inaccurate, or there are any significant adverse developments in these actions, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other related issues could result in significant liabilities or litigation costs and cause consumers to avoid our convenience stores. Convenience store businesses and other food service operators can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government agencies resulting from food quality, illness, or other health or 17 Table of Contents environmental concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more locations. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from purchasing gasoline, merchandise or food service at one or more of our convenience stores. We could also incur significant liabilities if a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us or litigation costs regardless of results, and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. Pending SEC matters could adversely affect us. As previously disclosed, on July 28, 2005 we announced that we would restate earnings for the period from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2005 arising from sale-leaseback accounting for certain transactions. In connection with our decision to restate, we filed a Form 8-K on July 28, 2005, as well as a Form 10-K/A on August 31, 2005 restating the transactions. The SEC issued a comment letter to us in connection with the Form 8-K, and we responded to the comments. Beginning in September 2005, we received from the SEC requests that we voluntarily provide certain information to the SEC Staff in connection with our sale-leaseback accounting, our decision to restate our financial statements with respect to sale-leaseback accounting and other lease accounting matters. In November 2006, the SEC informed us that in connection with the inquiry it had issued a formal order of private investigation. As previously disclosed, we are cooperating with the SEC in this ongoing investigation. We are unable to predict how long this investigation will continue or whether it will result in any adverse action. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related new rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, NASDAQ and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These new laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as regulatory and governing bodies provide new guidance, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate our deficiencies and improve our internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting, we are continuing to work to improve our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Other Risks Future sales of additional shares into the market may depress the market price of our common stock. If we or our existing stockholders sell shares of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, or if the market perceives such sales or issuances could occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of November 21, 2007, there are 22,193,949 shares of 18 Table of Contents our common stock outstanding, most of which are freely tradable (unless held by one of our affiliates). Pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, during any three-month period our affiliates can resell up to the greater of (a) 1% of our aggregate outstanding common stock or (b) the average weekly trading volume for the four weeks prior to the sale. Sales by our existing stockholders also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate or to use equity as consideration for future acquisitions. In addition, we have filed with the SEC a registration statement that covers up to 839,385 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options currently outstanding under our 1999 Stock Option Plan, as well as a registration statement that covers up to 2.4 million shares issuable pursuant to share-based awards under our Omnibus Plan, plus any options issued under our 1999 Stock Option Plan that are forfeited or cancelled after March 29, 2007. Shares registered on a registration statement may be sold freely at any time after issuance. Any issuance of shares of our common stock in the future could have a dilutive effect on your investment. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for capital at that time. In other circumstances, we may issue shares of our common stock pursuant to existing agreements or arrangements. For example, upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes, we may, at our option, issue shares of our common stock. In addition, if our convertible notes are converted in connection with a change of control, we may be required to deliver additional shares by increasing the conversion rate with respect to such notes. Notwithstanding the requirement to issue additional shares if convertible notes are converted on a change of control, the maximum conversion rate for our outstanding convertible notes is 25.4517 per $1,000 principal amount of convertible notes. We have also issued warrants to purchase up to 2,993,000 shares of our common stock to an affiliate of Merrill Lynch in connection with the note hedge and warrant transactions entered into at the time of our offering of convertible notes. Raising funds by issuing securities dilutes the ownership of our existing stockholders. Additionally, certain types of equity securities that we may issue in the future could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to your rights as a holder of our common stock. We could choose to issue additional shares for a variety of reasons including for investment or acquisitive purposes. Such issuances may have a dilutive impact on your investment. The market price for our common stock has been and may in the future be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. There currently is a public market for our common stock, but there is no assurance that there will always be such a market. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could significantly affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors among others: • A deviation in our results from the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • Statements by research analysts about our common stock, our company or our industry; • Changes in market valuations of companies in our industry and market evaluations of our industry generally; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Actions taken by our competitors; 19 Table of Contents • Sales or other issuances of common stock by us or our senior officers or other affiliates; or • Other general economic, political or market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock will also be impacted by our quarterly operating results and quarterly comparable store sales growth, which may be expected to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may impact our quarterly results and comparable store sales include, among others, general regional and national economic conditions, competition, unexpected costs and changes in pricing, consumer trends, the number of stores we open and/or close during any given period, costs of compliance with corporate governance and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and other factors discussed in this Item 1A and throughout “Part II.—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” You may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you pay. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change in control and adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of up to five million shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt without further stockholder approval; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of Directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some Directors; • limit who may call special meetings; • limit stockholder action by written consent, generally requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for any stockholder that wants to propose a matter to be acted upon by stockholders at a stockholders’ meeting, including the nomination of candidates for election to our Board of Directors. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our Board of Directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and may apply even if some of our stockholders consider the proposed transaction beneficial to them. For example, these provisions might discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. These provisions could also limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We may, in the future, adopt other measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited takeover, even if such a change in control were at a premium price or favored by a majority of unaffiliated stockholders. Such measures may be adopted without vote or action by our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 