Risk Factors The homebuilding industry has been experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Most housing markets across the United States continue to be characterized by an oversupply of both new and resale home inventory, including foreclosed homes, reduced levels of consumer demand for new homes, increased cancellation rates, aggressive price competition among homebuilders and increased incentives for home sales. As a 16 Table of Contents result of these factors, we, like many other homebuilders, have experienced a material reduction in revenues and margins. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and, in the near term, these conditions may further deteriorate. We expect that continued weakness in the homebuilding market would adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders’ equity as compared to prior periods and could result in additional inventory impairments in the future. During the past few years, we have experienced elevated levels of cancellations by potential homebuyers although the level of cancellations has improved significantly during the last few quarters. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but have not yet delivered the home. Although these sales contracts typically require a cash deposit and do not make the sale contingent on the sale of the customer’s existing home, in some cases a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit as a result of local laws or as a matter of our business practices. If the current industry downturn continues, economic conditions continue to deteriorate or if mortgage financing becomes less accessible, more homebuyers may have an incentive to cancel their contracts with us, even where they might be entitled to no refund or only a partial refund, rather than complete the purchase. Significant cancellations have had, and could have, a material adverse effect on our business as a result of lost sales revenue and the accumulation of unsold housing inventory. In particular, our cancellation rates for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 were 33.0% and 25.5%, respectively. It is important to note that both backlog and cancellation metrics are operational, rather than accounting data, and should be used only as a general gauge to evaluate performance. There is an inherent imprecision in these metrics based on an evaluation of qualitative factors during the transaction cycle. Based on our impairment tests and consideration of the current and expected future market conditions, we recorded inventory impairment charges of $51.0 million and lot option abandonment charges of $0.9 million during fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2010, we also wrote down our investment in certain of our joint ventures reflecting $24.3 million of impairments of inventory held within those ventures. Future economic or financial developments, including general interest rate increases, poor performance in either the national economy or individual local economies, or our ability to meet our projections could lead to future impairments. Our home sales and operating revenues could decline due to macro-economic and other factors outside of our control, such as changes in consumer confidence, declines in employment levels and increases in the quantity and decreases in the price of new homes and resale homes in the market. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live, may result in more caution on the part of homebuyers and, consequently, fewer home purchases. These economic uncertainties involve, among other things, conditions of supply and demand in local markets and changes in consumer confidence and income, employment levels, and government regulations. These risks and uncertainties could periodically have an adverse effect on consumer demand for and the pricing of our homes, which could cause our operating revenues to decline. Additional reductions in our revenues could, in turn, further negatively affect the market price of our securities. We are the subject of pending civil litigation which could require us to pay substantial damages or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. The failure to fulfill our obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the DPA) with the United States Attorney (or related agreements) and the consent order with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our operations. On July 1, 2009, we entered into the DPA with the United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina and a separate but related agreement with the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice (the HUD Agreement). As of September 30, 2010, we have paid $5 million to HUD pursuant to the HUD Agreement. Under the DPA, we are obligated to make payments to a restitution fund in an amount not to exceed $50 million. As of September 30, 2010, we have been credited with making $10 million of such payments. In connection with fiscal 2010, we will pay an additional $1.0 million to such fund. Future payments to the restitution fund will be equal to 4% of “adjusted EBITDA” as defined in the DPA for the first to occur of (x) a period of 60 months and (y) the total of all payments to the restitution fund equaling $50 million. In the event such payments do not equal at least $50 million at the end of 17 Table of Contents 60 months then, under the HUD Agreement, the obligations to make restitution payments will continue until the first to occur of (a) 24 months or (b) the date that $48 million has been paid into the restitution fund. Our obligation to make such payments could limit our ability to invest in our business or make payments of principal or interest on our outstanding debt. In addition, in the event we fail to comply with our obligations under the DPA or the HUD Agreement various federal authorities could bring criminal or civil charges against us which could be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We and certain of our current and former employees, officers and directors have been named as defendants in securities lawsuits and class action lawsuits. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries have been named in class action and multi-party lawsuits regarding claims made by homebuyers. While a number of these suits have been dismissed and/or settled, we cannot be assured that new claims by different plaintiffs will not be brought in the future. We cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcome of the current lawsuits or the effect that any adverse determinations in the lawsuits may have on us. An unfavorable determination in any of the lawsuits could result in the payment by us of substantial monetary damages which may not be covered by insurance. Further, the legal costs associated with the lawsuits and the amount of time required to be spent by management and the Board of Directors on these matters, even if we are ultimately successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to expenses incurred to defend the Company in these matters, under Delaware law and our bylaws, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters. We have obligations to advance legal fees and expenses to certain directors and officers, and we have advanced, and may continue to advance, legal fees and expenses to certain other current and former employees. In connection with the settlement agreement with the SEC entered into on September 24, 2008, we consented, without admitting or denying any wrongdoing, to a cease and desist order requiring future compliance with certain provisions of the federal securities laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of the order in the future, we may be subject to penalties and other adverse consequences as a result of the prior actions which could be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our insurance carriers may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to certain of the pending lawsuits, or we may not have sufficient coverage under such policies. If the insurance companies are successful in rescinding or denying coverage or if we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could hinder our business strategy and impose additional costs of identifying and training new individuals. Competition for qualified personnel in all of our operating markets is intense. Potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Over the past few years, the rating agencies had downgraded the Company’s corporate credit rating and ratings on the Company’s senior unsecured notes due to the deterioration in our homebuilding operations, credit metrics, other earnings-based metrics and the significant decrease in our tangible net worth. Although the rating agencies have increased these ratings recently, these ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. Our credit ratings could be further lowered or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in a credit rating downgrade or change in outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing. 18 Table of Contents Our Senior Notes, revolving credit and letter of credit facilities, and certain other debt impose significant restrictions and obligations on us. Restrictions on our ability to borrow could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our growth and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations. Certain of our secured and unsecured indebtedness and revolving credit and letter of credit facilities impose certain restrictions and obligations on us. Under certain of these instruments, we must comply with defined covenants which limit the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain asset sales, make certain types of restricted payments, engage in transactions with affiliates and create liens on assets of the Company. Failure to comply with certain of these covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument. Any such event of default could negatively impact other covenants or lead to cross defaults under certain of our other debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any waivers or amendments that may become necessary in the event of a future default situation without significant additional cost or at all. As of September 30, 2010, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion, net of unamortized discount of approximately $23.6 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us and the holders of our securities, including, among other things: • causing us to be unable to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements; • making us more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • making it difficult to fund future working capital, land purchases, acquisitions, share repurchases, general corporate purposes or other purposes; and • causing us to be limited in our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business. In addition, subject to restrictions in our existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our growth plans and our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness, will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to enter into additional debt and/or equity financings. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to do any of the foregoing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing may reduce consumer demand for our homes. Substantially all purchasers of our homes finance their acquisition with mortgage financing. The U.S. residential mortgage market has been impacted by the deterioration in the credit quality of loans originated to non-prime and subprime borrowers and an increase in mortgage foreclosure rates. These difficulties are not expected to improve until residential real estate inventories return to a more normal level and the mortgage credit market stabilizes. While the ultimate outcome of recent events cannot be predicted, they have had and may continue to have an impact on the availability and cost of mortgage financing to our customers. The volatility in interest rates, the decrease in the willingness and ability of lenders to make home mortgage loans, the tightening of lending standards and the limitation of financing product options, have made it more difficult for homebuyers to obtain acceptable financing. Any substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing would adversely affect the ability of prospective first-time and move-up homebuyers to obtain financing for our homes, as well as adversely affect the ability of prospective move-up homebuyers to sell their current homes. This disruption in the credit markets and the curtailed availability of mortgage financing has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as compared to prior periods. 19 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in competing against our homebuilding competitors, our market share could decline or our growth could be impaired and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. Competition in the homebuilding industry is intense, and there are relatively low barriers to entry into our business. Increased competition could hurt our business, as it could prevent us from acquiring attractive parcels of land on which to build homes or make such acquisitions more expensive, hinder our market share expansion, and lead to pricing pressures on our homes that may adversely impact our margins and revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results could suffer and the value of, or our ability to service, our debt could be adversely affected. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are superior or substantially similar to our products. Furthermore, some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and lower costs of funds than we do. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We currently build in several of the top markets in the nation and, therefore, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. Our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity may be adversely affected by any decrease in the value of our inventory, as well as by the associated carrying costs. We regularly acquire land for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our existing and new markets. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. The market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. When market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, previously entered into option agreements may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and preacquisition costs and terminate the agreements. In fiscal 2010, we recorded $0.9 million of lot option abandonment charges. During fiscal 2010, as a result of the further deterioration of the housing market, we determined that the carrying amount of certain of our inventory assets exceeded their estimated fair value. As a result of our analysis, during fiscal 2010, we incurred $51.0 million of non-cash pre-tax charges related to inventory impairments. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, we may have to incur additional inventory impairment charges which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity and our ability to comply with certain covenants in our debt instruments linked to tangible net worth. We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. We participate in land development joint ventures (JVs) in which we have less than a controlling interest. We have entered into JVs in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. Our JVs are typically entered into with developers, other homebuilders and financial partners to develop finished lots for sale to the joint venture’s members and other third parties. As a result of the continued deterioration of the housing market, we have written down our investment in certain of our JVs reflecting impairments of inventory held within those JVs. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, we may have to take further writedowns of our investments in our JVs. Our joint venture investments are generally very illiquid both because we lack a controlling interest in the JVs and because most of our JVs are structured to require super-majority or unanimous approval of the members to sell a substantial portion of the JV’s assets or for a member to receive a return of its invested capital. Our lack of a controlling interest also results in the risk that the JV will take actions that we disagree with, or fail to take actions that we desire, including actions regarding the sale of the underlying property. Our JVs typically obtain secured acquisition, development and construction financing. Generally, we and our joint venture partners have provided varying levels of guarantees of debt or other obligations of our unconsolidated JVs. At September 30, 2010, these guarantees included, for certain joint ventures, construction completion guarantees, loan-to-value maintenance agreements, repayment guarantees and environmental indemnities. As of September 30, 2010, one of our unconsolidated joint ventures is in default under its debt agreement. If all of the 20 Table of Contents guarantees under these debt agreements were drawn upon or otherwise invoked, our obligations would total $15.8 million. We cannot predict whether such events will occur or whether such obligations will be invoked. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. As of September 30, 2010, we are in a cumulative loss position based on the guidance in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (ASC 740). Due to this cumulative loss position and the lack of sufficient objective evidence regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future, we have recorded a valuation allowance for substantially all of our deferred tax assets. Although we do expect the industry to recover from the current downturn to normal profit levels in the future, it may be necessary for us to record additional valuation allowances in the future related to operating losses. Additional valuation allowances could materially increase our income tax expense, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which such valuation allowance is recorded. We could experience a reduction in home sales and revenues or reduced cash flows due to our inability to acquire land for our housing developments if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing to support our homebuilding activities. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive, and homebuilding requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and to begin development. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding activities. If internally generated funds are not sufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including additional bank financing and/or securities offerings. The amount and types of indebtedness which we may incur are limited by the terms of our existing debt. In addition, the availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced nationally, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. The credit and capital markets have recently experienced significant volatility. If we are required to seek additional financing to fund our operations, continued volatility in these markets may restrict our flexibility to access such financing. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures, we may be unable to acquire land for our housing developments. Additionally, if we cannot obtain additional financing to fund the purchase of land under our option contracts, we may incur contractual penalties and fees. Our stock price is volatile and could further decline. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past few years. The market price and volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our industry, operations or business prospects. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • factors influencing home purchases, such as availability of home mortgage loans and interest rates, credit criteria applicable to prospective borrowers, ability to sell existing residences, and homebuyer sentiment in general; • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider comparable to us; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains low or declines, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. This, in turn, may adversely impact our ability to reduce our financial leverage, as measured by the ratio of debt to total capital. As of 21 Table of Contents September 30, 2010, our financial leverage was 75.3%. Continued high levels of leverage or significant increases may adversely affect our credit ratings and make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans. The tax benefits of our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards and any future recognized built-in losses in our assets will be substantially limited since we experienced an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we generated net operating losses for fiscal 2010 and could possibly generate additional net operating losses in future years. In addition, we believe we have significant “built-in losses” in our assets (i.e. an excess tax basis over current fair market value) that may result in tax losses as such assets are sold. Net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a 20-year period to offset future earnings and reduce our federal income tax liability. Built-in losses, if and when recognized, generally will result in tax losses that may then be deducted or carried forward. However, because we experienced an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as of January 12, 2010, our ability to realize these tax benefits may be significantly limited. Section 382 contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an “ownership change,” which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses or deductions, as of the ownership change date, that are recognized during the five-year period after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on changes in the ownership among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the company’s common stock (including changes involving a shareholder becoming a 5% shareholder) or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock or share repurchases by the company. As a result of our recent “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382, our ability to use certain of our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards and recognize certain built-in losses or deductions is limited by Section 382 to an estimated maximum amount of approximately $11.4 million ($4 million tax-effected) annually. Based on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards and any future recognized built-in losses or deductions could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our limited pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards and any future recognized built-in losses or deductions or the occurrence of a future ownership change and resulting additional limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive government regulation which could cause us to incur significant liabilities or restrict our business activities. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and operating expenses and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to local, state and federal statutes and rules regulating, among other things, certain developmental matters, building and site design, and matters concerning the protection of health and the environment. Our operating expenses may be increased by governmental regulations such as building permit allocation ordinances and impact and other fees and taxes, which may be imposed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. Other governmental regulations, such as building moratoriums and “no growth” or “slow growth” initiatives, which may be adopted in communities which have developed rapidly, may cause delays in new home communities or otherwise restrict our business activities resulting in reductions in our revenues. Any delay or refusal from government agencies to grant us necessary licenses, permits and approvals could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may incur additional operating expenses due to compliance programs or fines, penalties and remediation costs pertaining to environmental regulations within our markets. We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given community vary greatly according to the community site, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former use of the site. Environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to implement time consuming and expensive 22 Table of Contents compliance programs and may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. From time to time, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and similar federal or state agencies review homebuilders’ compliance with environmental laws and may levy fines and penalties for failure to strictly comply with applicable environmental laws or impose additional requirements for future compliance as a result of past failures. Any such actions taken with respect to us may increase our costs. Further, we expect that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on homebuilders in the future. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials such as lumber. Our communities in California are especially susceptible to restrictive government regulations and environmental laws. We may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of construction defect, product liability and warranty claims made against us. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. We and certain of our subsidiaries have been, and continue to be, named as defendants in various construction defect claims, product liability claims, complaints and other legal actions that include claims related to Chinese drywall and moisture intrusion. As of September 30, 2010, our warranty reserves include an estimate for the repair of less than 60 homes in Florida where certain of our subcontractors installed defective Chinese drywall in homes that were delivered during our 2006 and 2007 fiscal years. As of September 30, we have completed repairs on approximately 52% of these homes. We are inspecting additional homes in order to determine whether they also contain defective Chinese drywall. The outcome of these inspections and other potential future inspections or an unexpected increase in repair costs may require us to increase our warranty reserve in the future. However, the amount of additional liability, if any, is not reasonably estimable. Furthermore, plaintiffs may in certain of these legal proceedings seek class action status with potential class sizes that vary from case to case. Class action lawsuits can be costly to defend, and if we were to lose any certified class action suit, it could result in substantial liability for us. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defect claims, product liability claims and defective Chinese drywall and related claims, interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it can be difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. Although we have obtained insurance for construction defect claims subject to applicable self-insurance retentions, such policies may not be available or adequate to cover liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding current claims, and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. Our operating expenses could increase if we are required to pay higher insurance premiums or litigation costs for various claims, which could cause our net income to decline. The costs of insuring against construction defect, product liability and director and officer claims are substantial. Increasingly in recent years, lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) have been filed against builders, asserting claims of personal injury and property damage. Our insurance may not cover all of the claims, including personal injury claims, or such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could reduce our net income and restrict our cash flow available to service debt. Historically, builders have recovered from subcontractors and their insurance carriers a significant portion of the construction defect liabilities and costs of defense that the builders have incurred. Insurance coverage available to subcontractors for construction defects is becoming increasingly expensive, and the scope of coverage is 23 Table of Contents restricted. If we cannot effectively recover from our subcontractors or their carriers, we may suffer greater losses which could decrease our net income. A builder’s ability to recover against any available insurance policy depends upon the continued solvency and financial strength of the insurance carrier that issued the policy. Many of the states in which we build homes have lengthy statutes of limitations applicable to claims for construction defects. To the extent that any carrier providing insurance coverage to us or our subcontractors becomes insolvent or experiences financial difficulty in the future, we may be unable to recover on those policies, and our net income may decline. We are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our subcontractors, which, if unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We conduct our construction operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all construction work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the construction of our homes. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in the markets in which we operate. In addition, inadequate subcontractor resources could have a material adverse effect on our business. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Our operating results in a future quarter or quarters may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors and, as a result, the market value of our common stock will fluctuate. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and net earnings on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of both national and local factors, including, among others: • the timing of home closings and land sales; • our ability to continue to acquire additional land or secure option contracts to acquire land on acceptable terms; • conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy; • raw material and labor shortages; • seasonal home buying patterns; and • other changes in operating expenses, including the cost of labor and raw materials, personnel and general economic conditions. The occurrence of natural disasters could increase our operating expenses and reduce our revenues and cash flows. The climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate, including California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, our homes under construction or our building lots in such states could be damaged or destroyed, which may result in losses exceeding our insurance coverage. Any of these events could increase our operating expenses, impair our cash flows and reduce our revenues, which could, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our securities. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the armed conflicts 24 Table of Contents in Iraq and Afghanistan, may cause disruption to the economy, our Company, our employees and our customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 