Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is dependent on its relationship with Tajima and if that relationship were terminated, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 54% of the Company’s revenues resulted from the sales of embroidery equipment supplied by Tajima and for the year ended December 31, 2007 72% of the Company’s revenues resulted from new Tajima equipment sales. Two separate distributorship agreements (collectively, the “Tajima Agreements”) govern the Company’s rights to distribute Tajima embroidery equipment in the United States and the Caribbean. The distributorship agreements with Tajima collectively provide the Company with the exclusive rights to distribute Tajima’s complete line of standard embroidery, chenille embroidery and certain specialty embroidery machines in all 50 states. The Main Agreement, which covers 39 states, is effective from February 21, 2004 through February 21, 2011. The Main Agreement may be terminated by Tajima and/or the Company on not less than two years’ prior notice. Under the non-exclusive West Coast Agreement which covers nine western continental states, and Alaska and Hawaii, the Company is a distributor of Tajima’s complete line of standard embroidery, chenille embroidery and certain specialty embroidery. The West Coast Agreement, as amended, expired February 20, 2009. The Company is in the process of negotiating an extension of the West Coast Agreement, however, there can be no assurance that an agreement can be reached on terms acceptable to the Company. The failure of the Company to obtain an extension of the West Coast Agreement on terms acceptable to the Company could result in a loss of the Company’s right to distribute embroidery machines in the territories covered by the West Coast Agreement which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and financial condition. Each of the Tajima agreements contains language that permits termination if the Company fails to achieve certain minimum sales quotas or annual targets. In 2008 the Company received a waiver and for 2007, the Company met its minimum quota. Furthermore, the 11 agreements may be terminated for, among other reasons, if (a) Paul Gallagher is no longer Chief Executive Officer of the Company or (b) if Tajima determines that a change in control of the Company has occurred. The termination of the Tajima agreements would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company’s supply of Tajima equipment is disrupted, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Importing Tajima’s equipment from Japan subjects the Company to risks of engaging in business overseas, including international political and economic conditions, changes in the exchange rates between currencies, tariffs, foreign regulation of trade with the United States, and work stoppages. The interruption of supply or a significant increase in the cost of Tajima equipment for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, Tajima manufactures its embroidery machines in several locations in Japan. The Company could be materially and adversely affected should any of these facilities be seriously damaged as a result of a fire, natural disaster or otherwise. Further, the Company could be materially and adversely affected should Tajima be subject to adverse market, business or financial conditions. The decline in the domestic embroidery industry and the U.S. economy has had a material adverse effect on the Company. Beginning in fiscal 1999 and continuing to present day, the embroidery industry experienced (i) a decline in demand for large embroidery machines and (ii) a trend toward the relocation of manufacturing facilities to Mexico, the Caribbean, the Far East and South America (which is outside of the geographic area the Company is authorized to distribute embroidery machines pursuant to the distribution agreements with Tajima), both of which have had a material adverse effect on the operations of the Company, its business and financial condition. A decrease in consumer preferences for embroidered products, a general economic downturn or other events having an adverse effect on the embroidery industry as a whole would also have an adverse effect on the Company. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the United States economy. Our business and financial performance has been and continues to be adversely affected by current economic conditions that cause a decline in business and spending of our customers, including a reduction in the availability of credit for our customers, financial market volatility and recession. Since the Company pays certain suppliers in foreign currency, it is subject to foreign currency risks. The Company pays for its Tajima embroidery machinery in Japanese Yen, its MHM screenprinting equipment in U.S. Dollars and Euros and its SEIT lasers in Euros. Any change in the valuation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Japanese Yen and to the Euro can change the cost to the Company of its embroidery machines, its screenprinting machines and its textile laser inventory and can result in competitive pressures for reduced U.S. dollar pricing among Yen-based and Euro based equipment distributors and manufacturers. The Company has generally been able to recover increased costs through price increases to its customers or, in limited circumstances, price reductions from Tajima; however, dollar price reductions reduce dollar contribution margins and as a result, create overhead coverage pressure. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to recover such increased costs in the future or reduce overheads to the necessary degree to obtain profitability. The failure on the part of the Company to do so could have a material adverse effect on the business, operations and financial condition. These transactions are not currently hedged through any derivative currency product. Currency gains 12 and losses in foreign exchange transactions are recorded in the cost of sales section of the statement of operations. The Company is dependent on its relationship with MHM and if that relationship were terminated, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. For year 2008, approximately 10% of the Company’s revenues resulted from the sale of screen printing equipment supplied by MHM. The distribution agreement provides the Company with exclusive rights for ten years to sell MHM screen printing equipment in North America. The agreement stipulates that the Company must purchase a minimum of $5 million worth of screen printing equipment during each year. If the Company fails to achieve the minimum quota in any year because it only orders half of the quantity required, then MHM Austria shall have the right to terminate the agreement. For 2008 MHM waived its minimum purchase requirement. If the Company does not accurately predict inventory level needs, its business could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s ordering cycle for new embroidery machines is approximately three to eight months, approximately seven to ten weeks for new screen printing equipment and approximately eight weeks for new textile lasers prior to delivery to the Company. Since the Company generally delivers new machines to its customers within one week of receiving orders, it orders inventory based on past experience and forecasted demand. Due to the relatively long lead times of the ordering cycle, any significant unanticipated downturn or upturn in equipment sales could result in an increase in inventory levels or shortage of product, respectively, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to successfully compete against its competitors. The Company competes with distributors of embroidery machines produced by manufacturers other than Tajima and with manufacturers who distribute their embroidery machines directly as well as with other providers of embroidery products and services. The Company believes that competition in the embroidery industry is based on technological capability and quality of embroidery machines, price and service. If other manufacturers develop embroidery machines which are more technologically advanced than Tajima’s or if the quality of Tajima embroidery machines diminishes, the Company would not be able to compete as effectively which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company also faces competition in selling screen printing equipment, textile lasers, software, supplies, accessories and proprietary products as well as providing customer training, support and services. Due to the decline in overall demand in the apparel decorating industry which occurred during the last several years, potential customers may emphasize price differences over value-added services and support in purchasing new equipment. Severe price competition may impair the Company’s ability to provide its customers with value-added services and support. Although the Company attempts to compete on the basis of price, to the best degree possible, and to maintain profit margins, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so. The Company’s failure to compete effectively in these areas could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Embroidery machines produced by Tajima are subject to competition from the introduction by other manufacturers of technological advances and new products. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce products with features that render products sold by the Company and products developed by Tajima less marketable. The Company relies on Tajima’s embroidery equipment to be of the highest quality and state of the art. The Company’s future success will depend, to a certain extent, on the ability of Tajima to adapt to 13 technological change and address market needs, including price competition. There can be no assurance that Tajima will be able to keep pace with technological change in the embroidery industry, the current demands of the marketplace or compete favorably on price. The failure of Tajima to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. The Company is dependent on its existing management team and if any of the key personnel left, the Company would be adversely affected. Changes in Company’s business have resulted in increased responsibilities for management and have placed increased demands upon the Company’s operating, financial and technical resources. The Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the abilities and continued efforts of Paul Gallagher, its Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Gallagher is bound by a 3 year agreement that commenced on September 11, 2006. The loss of the services of Mr. Gallagher, or the services of other key management personnel, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s subsidiary, U.S. Graphics, is dependent on its shareholders for financial support, and since continued support has not been determined, U. S. Graphics could be adversely affected. U. S. Graphics incurred a net loss in 2007 and 2008 and currently does not have a credit facility with bank Accordingly, U. S. Graphics currently seeks financial support from its parent through a revolving note payable. If such support is not sustained from its parent, U.S. Graphics will face liquidity issues. The current economic environment has resulted in lower consumer confidence and lower sales. If this trend continues the Company could be adversely affected. This current trend may lead to further reduced consumer spending, which could affect our net sales and our future profitability. Therefore, we have taken cost reduction actions to address the uncertainty period posed by the current economic conditions. The Company is also seeking a new revolving line of credit. However, there is no guarantee that the cost reduction actions, or the new revolving line of credit, if obtained, will offset any future effect on our net sales. The Company’s current share price is below the $1.00 minimum listing requirement for the NASDAQ Global market and the market value of its publically held shares is below the $5 million requirement. NASDAQ Global market has currently suspended these listing requirements until July 20, 2009. If NASDAQ Global Market does not extend its suspension of its $1.00 minimum listing requirement and the $5 million minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement, or the Company does not get compliant with these listing requirements by July 20, 2009, the Company could be delisted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 14 