ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the Company and may be material to the Company. The Company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the Company and its operations. The forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof 20 Table of Contents based on management’s current expectations, and the Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of “Competition” under Item 1 of this Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2012 Annual Report, and “Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2012 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2012 Annual Report. Our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. The current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. The overall United States economy began showing signs of stability during 2012, but economic and political uncertainty impeded significant growth. While we were encouraged by an increase in our aggregates shipments in 2012, compared with 2011, demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. Several of our top sales states have stopped or slowed bidding projects in their transportation departments. We sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. Since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. The overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. If economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. The recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. Construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. While our aggregates operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states (based on net sales by state of destination) of Texas, North Carolina, Iowa, Colorado, and Georgia, our profitability will decrease. We experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. The historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. For the last three years our aggregates shipments ranged from 125 million tons to 130 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. Our aggregates volumes increased 2.6% in 2012 after decreasing 3.8% in 2011. Our heritage aggregates shipments increased 2.9% in 2012 over 21 Table of Contents 2011. We determine our heritage aggregates volume by excluding tonnage from operations we acquired during the year that were not included in previous year operations and excluding operations we divested during the year. Prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the United States had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. While historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, during 2012 the uncertainty created by the lack of a successor federal highway bill negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. This uncertainty was accompanied by a reduction in many states’ investment in highway maintenance. In July 2012, the President signed into law the successor federal highway bill known as MAP-21, which was designed to maintain highway spending at current annual levels of approximately $40 billion in funding for transportation infrastructure through fiscal 2014. MAP-21 also greatly expands TIFIA funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $750 million in fiscal 2013 and $1 billion in fiscal 2014. While the enactment of MAP-21 resulted in an increase in infrastructure spending during the fourth quarter of 2012, we cannot be assured of the full impact of MAP-21. While TIFIA funding should greatly boost state road construction programs well above their current construction budgets, we cannot be assured of the full impact of TIFIA funding. Nevertheless, we believe that the enactment of MAP-21, along with the actions of some of our key states to use various funding alternatives to support important infrastructure jobs, should lead to increased infrastructure spending in 2013 and later years. We cannot be assured, however, of the impact of Congressional debate on federal funding of infrastructure spending and/or possible Congressional action that might impact MAP-21 and/or TIFIA provisions. Weakness in the United States economy and uncertainty in long-term federal infrastructure spending until the passage of MAP-21 hurt infrastructure spending in 2012. While the overall economy began showing signs of stability in 2012, economic and political uncertainty impeded significant growth. Infrastructure spending improved in the fourth quarter of 2012 with the passage of MAP-21. Our heritage aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market were flat in 2012 after decreasing 5% in 2011. We remain optimistic that the demand and need for infrastructure projects support consistent growth in this market now that long-term federal funding is resolved through 2014. In 2012, 51% of our heritage aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market. Within the construction industry, we sell our aggregates products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. Nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. We experienced a 10% increase in heritage aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2012, with increased shipments to the energy sector compared with 2011, driven by lower natural gas prices and the ongoing shale field activity at the Eagle Ford Shale field in south Texas. This increase was accompanied by growth in heritage aggregates shipments in certain of our geographic markets to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail, which generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. We expect this component of the nonresidential construction market to experience modest volume recovery in 2013. In 2012, 30% of our heritage aggregates shipments were to the nonresidential construction market. 22 Table of Contents Our heritage aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 14% in 2012. The U.S. Census reported the total value of private residential construction put in place in 2012 increased 17%. Housing strength varies considerably in different areas of the country. We saw relative strength in some of our markets, particularly Texas and Colorado. While this trend is encouraging, housing starts are still below the historical annual average of 1.5 million starts. The U.S. Census estimated 780,000 housing units were started in 2012. The recovery in housing is expected to continue in 2013, with substantial expansion during the second half of the year. According to McGraw Hill Construction, by 2015, housing starts are estimated to be 1 million per year, bringing the level of construction closer to the demographic demand for single-family housing. In 2012, 8% of our heritage aggregates shipments were to the residential construction market. Shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high calcium carbonate material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (“ChemRock/Rail”) accounted for 11% of our heritage aggregates shipments and decreased 9% in 2012. This reduction was principally due to the comparison with 2011, when ballast shipments increased to repair rail lines after the Missouri River flooding in the Midwestern United States, and a decline in both current coal traffic on railroads as well as railroad maintenance. While ballast shipments were lower compared with 2011, volumes for 2012 were in line with the five-year historical average. Three of our top ten customers in 2012 were Class I railroads. We expect our ChemRock/Rail shipments to be relatively flat in 2013 compared to 2012. Our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. Our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. So our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. The federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. The most recent federal highway bill passed in 2012, MAP-21, provided annual funding at current levels of approximately $40 billion through September 30, 2014, with modest increases to reflect projected inflation. MAP-21 also greatly expands TIFIA funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $750 million in fiscal 2013 and $1 billion in fiscal 2014. MAP-21 is not subject to potential sequestration under current federal law. TIFIA is also not subject to federal debt ceiling limits. Nevertheless, given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that Congress will not take action that might impact MAP-21 or TIFIA or that Congress will pass a successor federal highway bill or will extend the provisions of the current bill when it expires in 2014. Federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. Each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. The annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the Highway Trust Fund. Once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). Apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific 23 Table of Contents programs as outlined in the federal legislation. The Highway Trust Fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. These shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. In response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the General Fund into the Highway Trust Fund over the past three years. Presently, the Congressional Budget Office projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the Highway Trust Fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner sometime during fiscal 2015. We cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. At the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. Delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. Many states have been experiencing state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. North Carolina is among the states experiencing these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. The situation is improving, however. Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather. Since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. Adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. Severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. The construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. Because of the weather’s effect on the construction industry’s activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. The second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. Operations in the Denver, Colorado area increase the Company’s exposure to winter weather and risk of losses in the first and fourth quarters. Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to 24 Table of Contents transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. Our business is a capital-intensive business. The property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. Therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. We believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Our businesses face many competitors. Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. Some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. As another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. While the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. We may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. We operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. We have acquired many companies since 1995. Some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. We have sold some underperforming and other non-strategic assets. 25 Table of Contents We have doubled our exposure to vertically-integrated businesses in the last year. Our acquisitions in Texas and Colorado in December of 2011 more than doubled our exposure to downstream businesses. For 2012, our asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses accounted for about 20% of the net sales of our aggregates business, up from 8% in 2011. We obtain lower margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) from these operations as compared with our aggregates product line. Therefore, as we expand these operations, our gross margins are likely to be adversely affected. The mix of vertically-integrated operations lowered the gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business by about 260 basis points in 2012. The gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our vertically-integrated operations. Short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy, and raw materials affect our businesses. Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. The financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. Moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. For example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. We do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. In 2012, while the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 5% higher compared to 2011, this was offset by a decline of 25% from 2011 on our average cost for natural gas. The Specialty Products business has fixed price agreements for the supply of coal and about 25% of its natural gas needs in 2013. Similarly our vertically-integrated operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mix concrete, respectively. These raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. The financial results of our vertically-integrated operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. 2012 saw continued volatility in the costs for these raw materials. Road paving construction operations present additional risks to our business. Our vertically-integrated operations also present challenges in the paving construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. In some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. Under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. In our road paving construction operations we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors 26 Table of Contents beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time or our original bid. These same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. We take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. These risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. Labor unions represent 12.8% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. Our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Manistee, Michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio lime plant expire in August 2015 and June 2014, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, or ship. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. The availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. Rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products. If owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. We have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our Bahamas and Nova Scotia operations to various coastal ports. These contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. Our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. When we sold our River District operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with Lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. As a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the Mississippi River. We still distribute some of our product by barge along rivers in West Virginia. We may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. The accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. While we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. Accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. We urge you to read about 28 Table of Contents our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. We urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in Note A of our 2012 financial statements. The federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the United States for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. Proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. We have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. Demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level. A recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. We are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. Nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. Historically our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. During the economic downturn we have temporarily idled some of our facilities. In 2012, the Company’s Aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the Company’s ability to capitalize $50.9 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. If demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. The timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. During the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. If practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it 29 Table of Contents elsewhere. Because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. Nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. The credit environment could impact the Company’s ability to borrow money in the future. Additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. Further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. We may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. Any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. While management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. While management believes the Company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. Our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. Our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. The economic downturn has caused a significant decline in steel manufacturing. While steelmaking increased in 2012, it is still far below levels of the past. We anticipate this weakness to continue in 2013. The specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. Our specialty products business now runs at capacity so unexpected changes could affect its earnings. Because our Specialty Products business currently runs at capacity, any unplanned changes in costs or realignment of customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of this segment of our business. 30 Table of Contents Our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. Acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: • We may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; • We may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • We may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; • Our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; • We may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or • We may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and North Carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and North Carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and • super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not 31 Table of Contents approved by the board of directors. Additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: • Governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction, to fund deficits; • The jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; • The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • Changes in available tax credits; • Changes in share-based compensation; • Other changes in tax laws, and • The interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. We are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the staff of the SEC one hundred and eighty (180) days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 