Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements The following discussion, as well as other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regarding our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical information provided or incorporated by 20 Table of Contents reference herein, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “estimate” and “intend” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially due to, among other things, costs, fees and expenses related to the post-closing administrative services to be provided under the United Administrative Services Agreements entered into in connection with the Northeast Sale; potential termination of the United Administrative Services Agreements by the service recipients should we breach such agreements or fail to perform all or a material part of the services required thereunder; any liabilities of our Northeast operations that were incurred prior to the closing of the Northeast Sale as well as those liabilities incurred through the winding-up and running-out period of the Northeast operations; potential termination of our TRICARE North operations; potential health care reform; rising health care costs; continued recessionary economic conditions or a further decline in the economy; negative prior period claims reserve developments; trends in medical care ratios; unexpected utilization patterns or unexpectedly severe or widespread illnesses; membership declines; rate cuts affecting our Medicare or Medicaid businesses; litigation costs; regulatory issues; operational issues; investment portfolio impairment charges; volatility in the financial markets; and general business and market conditions. Additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the factors set forth below and the risks discussed in our other filings from time to time with the SEC. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many of the factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. These factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of operations or results by us or our representatives, including any forward-looking discussion, as well as comments contained in press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors or other communications by us. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis, judgment, belief or expectation only as of the date thereof. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements. Potential health care reform legislation being considered by Congress may adversely affect us. The issue of affordable health insurance and the challenge of covering the uninsured have generated significant amounts of public attention. The United States Senate and House of Representatives passed separate health care reform bills in late 2009. These bills have not yet been reconciled or signed into law. In addition, certain members of Congress have proposed a single-payer health care system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public health care measures. It is possible that any final health care reform legislation could include one or more of the following elements, some of which would change the dynamics of the health care industry: • Requirement that health plans pay significantly higher taxes, including a special assessment or annual operating fee for health insurance providers to fund the legislation; • An excise tax on high cost employer-provider health coverage to fund the legislation; • Regulation of the individual coverage market by restricting or mandating premium levels or mandating coverage for individuals with pre-existing medical conditions, restricting our underwriting discretion, or restricting our ability to rescind coverage based on a member’s misrepresentations and omissions; • Require prior regulatory approval of premium rate increases, or other requirements that would limit the ability of health plans and insurers to vary premiums and/or accurately price based on assessments of underlying risk; • Elimination of certain caps on health care coverage; • A health care exchange to facilitate uninsured individuals’ access to health care coverage from private companies; and 21 Table of Contents • Other steps to expand access to health insurance in a manner that significantly restricts a health insurer or health plan’s ability to effectively manage risk and limits insurance company profitability, including by regulating the medical cost ratio. We do not currently know what the ultimate outcome of the reconciliation process or the legislation will be. Any health care reform may be phased in over a number of years, but, if enacted and depending on the provisions contained in any final legislation, could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to federal and state legislation and regulations affecting the managed health care industry could adversely affect us. The United States Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently consider legislative proposals and regulatory initiatives that, if enacted, could materially affect the managed health care industry and the regulatory environment and could have material adverse effects on our operations, including subjecting us to additional restrictions on our business operations, regulatory compliance costs and litigation risk. Such measures have proposed, among other things, to: • Restrict or eliminate health insurers and health plans in the marketplace; • Reduce government funding of government-sponsored health programs in which we participate, like Medicare Advantage; • Mandate certain benefits and administrative or other services that could increase the cost of healthcare or administrative services, or restrict our right to manage the member’s care through authorization requirements, requirements of medical necessity, or formularies for covered pharmaceuticals; • Restrict a health insurer or health plan’s profitability or require health plans to pay significantly higher taxes; • Restrict our ability to contract with and manage access to providers and provider groups, enhance certain provider payments or appeal rights, or restrict our ability to select and terminate providers; and • Mandate certain grievance and appeal rights for our members or providers, including establishment of third-party reviews of certain care decisions. In addition to the managed care reform legislation being considered by Congress, governors and state legislatures are considering various proposals to cover the uninsured in states where we conduct business, including California. Proposals under consideration at both the state and federal levels include, but are not limited to, restructuring the health insurance market to mandate coverage, imposing various taxes and fees on insurance companies and on insurance coverage and arrangements, guaranteeing insurance in the individual market, merging individual and small group markets, mandating minimum medical care ratios, placing a cap on premiums, requiring prior regulatory approval of premium rate increases or otherwise expanding access to health insurance in a manner that could limit the profitability or marketability of our health benefits or managed care products. From time to time, Congress also has considered various forms of managed care reform legislation which, if adopted, could fundamentally change the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. Additionally, there is legislative interest in modifying ERISA’s preemptive effect on state laws and litigants’ ability to seek damages beyond the benefits offered under their health plans. If adopted, such limitations could permit greater state regulation of our operations, could increase our liability exposure and could expand the scope of damages available to litigants. We cannot predict the outcome of the legislative and regulatory proposals described above or any other such legislative or regulatory proposals, nor the extent to which we may be affected by the enactment of any such legislation or regulations. Such legislation or regulation, including measures that would cause us to change our 22 Table of Contents current manner of operation or increase our exposure to liability, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete in our industry. Our profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict and control health care costs. A substantial majority of the revenue we receive is used to pay the costs of health care services and supplies delivered to our members. The total amount of health care costs we incur is affected by the number and type of individual services provided and the cost of each service. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict health care costs and to manage future health care utilization and costs through underwriting criteria, utilization management, product design and negotiation of favorable professional and hospital contracts. Periodic renegotiations of hospital and other provider contracts, coupled with continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups, may result in increased health care costs or limit our ability to negotiate favorable rates. Changes in utilization rates; demographic characteristics; the regulatory environment, including proposed restrictions on our ability to implement changes in premium rates; health care practices; inflation; new technologies; clusters of high-cost cases; continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups and numerous other factors affecting health care costs may adversely affect our ability to predict and control health care costs as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a large scale public health epidemic could affect our ability to control health care costs. See “—Large-scale public health epidemics and/or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” For several years, one of the fastest increasing categories of our health care costs has been the cost of hospital-based products and services. Factors underlying the increase in hospital costs include, but are not limited to, the underfunding of public programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare and the constant pressure that places on rates from commercial health plans, growing rates of uninsured individuals, new technology, state initiated mandates, alleged abuse of hospital chargemasters, an aging population and, under certain circumstances, relatively low levels of hospital competition caused by market concentration. Another significant category of our health care costs is costs of pharmaceutical products and services. Factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of drugs, utilization of new and existing drugs and changes in discounts. As a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for our health plan products, our annual net earnings for 2009 would have been reduced by approximately $107 million. The inability to forecast and manage our health care costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. In addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. Our premium revenue is set in advance of the actual delivery of services, and, in certain circumstances, before contracting with providers. While we attempt to take into account our estimate of expected health care costs over the premium period in setting the premiums we charge or bid, factors such as competition, new or changed regulations and other circumstances may limit our ability to fully base premiums on estimated costs. In addition, many factors may, and often do, cause actual health care costs to exceed those costs estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include increased utilization of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, unanticipated seasonality, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, and insured population characteristics. In addition, several states are considering legislative proposals to require prior regulatory approval of premium rate increases. Our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected 23 Table of Contents by significant disparities between the premium increases of our health plans and those of our major competitors or by limitations on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels. In 2009, we continued to see decreases in our total commercial membership as we sought to improve margins. Any future increase in premiums could result in the loss of members. Additionally, there is always the possibility that adverse risk selection could occur when members who utilize higher levels of health care services compared with the insured population as a whole choose to remain with our health plans rather than risk moving to another plan. This could cause health care costs to be higher than anticipated and therefore cause our financial results to fall short of expectations. In the various states in which we do business, premium prices are also constrained by state laws and regulations which restrict the spread between premiums and benefits, such as laws and regulations that require a minimum loss ratio of a certain percentage. These laws and regulations not only restrict our ability to raise our premiums but also create competitive pressure from some of our competitors who may have lower health care costs than we have and therefore price their premiums at relatively low levels in relation to our cost of care. As a result of the Northeast Sale, our business is regionally concentrated. In the event our TRICARE North operations are discontinued, our business could become more regionally concentrated. As a result of the Northeast Sale, our business operations are now concentrated in the states of California, Arizona and Oregon, and all of our Medicaid operations are in the state of California. Due to this concentration in a small number of states, in particular, California, we are exposed to the risk of a deterioration in our financial results if our health plans in these states, in particular, California, experience significant losses. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by economic conditions in these states. If the economic conditions in the state of California or in the other states in which we operate continue to deteriorate, we may experience reductions in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if reimbursement payments from a state are significantly delayed, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Losses of accounts or deterioration in margins in any one of the states in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” In July 2009, we were notified by the Department of Defense that we were not selected to by the managed care support contractor under the new T3 North Region contract. Our protest of this decision was upheld by the GAO, and the Department of Defense will undertake a re-evaluation of the bids as a result of the protest decision. At this time, we are unable to determine whether the re-evaluation will have any effect upon the ultimate outcome of the contract award. See “Item 1. Business —Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—TRICARE” for the details regarding the status of the T3 North Region contract award. If our TRICARE North operations are concluded, the regional concentration of our remaining business will increase significantly, further increasing our exposure to a deterioration in our financial results if our operations in these states experience significant losses. Our inability to estimate and maintain appropriate levels of reserves for claims may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reserves for claims are estimates of incurred costs based on various assumptions. The accuracy of these estimates may be affected by external forces such as changes in the rate of inflation, the regulatory environment, the judicious administration of claims, medical costs and other factors. Included in the reserves for claims are estimates for the costs of services that have been incurred but not reported and for claims received but not processed. These estimates are continually monitored and reviewed and, as settlements are made or estimates adjusted, differences are reflected in current operations. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the actual liability could differ significantly from the amounts reserved. If our actual liability is lower than estimated, 24 Table of Contents it could mean that we set premium prices too high, which could result in a loss of membership. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, it could have a negative impact on our profitability per enrolled member and, subsequently, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period. Our businesses are subject to significant government regulation, which increases our cost of doing business and could adversely affect our ability to grow our businesses. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, financial requirements, licensing requirements, enrollment requirements and periodic examinations by governmental agencies. These laws and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than stockholders of managed health care companies such as Health Net. The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering these regulations to interpret them and to impose substantial fines when they believe violations have occurred. Regulatory agencies have imposed substantial fines against us in the past, and may impose substantial fines against us in the future if they determine that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force us to change how we do business and may restrict our revenue and/or enrollment growth, and/or increase our health care and administrative costs, and/or increase our exposure to liability with respect to members, providers or others. See “—Potential health care reform legislation being considered by Congress may adversely affect us” and “—Changes to federal and state legislation and regulations affecting the managed health care industry could adversely affect us.” Further, individual associates may violate these laws and rules, notwithstanding our internal policies and compliance programs. See “—If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.” Our HMO and insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations relating to cash reserves, minimum net worth, premium rates, approval of policy language and benefits, appeals and grievances with respect to benefit determinations, provider contracting, utilization management, issuance and termination of policies, claims payment practices and a wide variety of other regulations relating to the development and operation of health plans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses, or that regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Statutory Capital Requirements” for additional information. As a government contractor, we are subject to U.S. government oversight. The government may ask about and investigate our business practices and audit our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Depending on the results of those audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us. Under government procurement regulations and practices, a negative determination resulting from such claims could result in a contractor being fined, debarred and/or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time. In addition, we are subject to state and federal false claims laws that generally prohibit the submission of false claims for reimbursement or payment to government agencies. Courts have imposed substantial fines and penalties against companies found to have violated these laws. We are also exposed to other risks associated with U.S. government contracting, including dependence upon Congressional appropriation and allotment of funds. In addition, delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain or maintain, governmental approvals, or moratoria imposed by regulatory authorities, could adversely affect our revenue or the number of our members, increase costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk. Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business, accounting for approximately 31% of our total premium revenue in our West Operations reportable segment in 2009 and an expected 30% in 2010. Over 25 Table of Contents the last several years, we have significantly expanded our Medicare health plans and restructured our Medicare program management team and operations to enhance our ability to pursue business opportunities presented by the MMA and the Medicare program generally. The current administration has made it clear that the reduction of Medicare expenditures is an important part of health reform. If the cost and complexity of any changes to the Medicare program exceed our expectations or prevent effective program implementation; if the government alters or further reduces funding of Medicare programs; if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; if CMS suspends our ability to market, or enroll members in, our Medicare products; or if we are not successful in winning contract renewals or new contracts under the MMA’s competitive bidding process, our current Medicare business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we may not be able to realize any return on our investments in Medicare initiatives. See “—Federal and state audits, review and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations” for information on our recent CMS audit and details on the recent suspension of our auto-enrollment for LIS beneficiaries. There are specific risks associated with our provision of Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits under the MMA. These risks include potential uncollectibility of receivables, inadequacy of pricing assumptions, inability to receive and process information and increased pharmaceutical costs, as well as the underlying seasonality of this business, and extended settlement periods for claims submissions. In addition, in connection with our participation in the Medicare Advantage and Part D programs, we regularly record revenues associated with the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism employed by CMS. This mechanism is designed to appropriately reimburse health plans for the relative health care cost risk of its Medicare enrollees. Because the recorded revenue is based on our best estimate at the time, the actual payment we receive from CMS for risk adjustment reimbursement settlements may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize on our financial statements. A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Approximately 51% of our 2009 total revenues relate to federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE. All of the revenues in our Government Contracts segment come from the federal government. Under government-funded health programs, the government payor typically determines premium and reimbursement levels. If the government payor reduces premium or reimbursement levels or increases them by less than our costs increase, and we are unable to make offsetting adjustments through supplemental premiums and changes in benefit plans, we could be adversely affected. The amount of government receivables set forth in our consolidated financial statements represents our best estimate of the government’s liability to us under TRICARE and other federal government contracts. In general, government receivables are estimates and subject to government audit and negotiation. In addition, inherent in government contracts are an uncertainty of and vulnerability to disagreements with the government. Final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize on our financial statements. Contracts under our government programs are generally subject to frequent change, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the revenue received by us or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. Changes of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to government health care coverage programs in the future may also affect our willingness to participate in these programs. After the Northeast Sale, our Medicaid operations are solely in the state of California. California is currently experiencing an unprecedented budget deficit, and the Governor of California has proposed significant spending cuts for services as part of the 2010 and 2011 budget, some of which could result in reductions in enrollment in 26 Table of Contents or reimbursement from the Medi-Cal and Healthy Families programs. Any enrollment freeze or additional significant reduction in payments received in connection with Medi-Cal, the Healthy Families program or similar programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly as our Medi-Cal membership increases due to current economic conditions. In addition, California could impose requirements on the Medi-Cal program that make continued operations not feasible. Health care operations under our TRICARE North contract are scheduled to conclude on March 31, 2010, unless extended by the Department of Defense. We have been formally notified by the Department of Defense that it intends to exercise two additional option periods under our current North Region contract which, if both were exercised, would extend our existing TRICARE contract through March 31, 2011. We were not selected to be the managed care support contractor under the T3 contract for the North Region and protested that decision. See “Item 1. Business—Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—TRICARE” for additional information regarding the T3 contract for the North Region. The filing of our protest triggered an automatic suspension of the performance of the T3 North contract which had the effect of stalling the transition implementation of the T3 North contract. The Department of Defense has indicated that if transition work is resumed, the contractor will be given a ten month transition period prior to the start of health care delivery under the contract. There can be no assurance that the Department of Defense will exercise both option periods under our current TRICARE contract or that it will not shorten the transition period to the new contract to less than ten months. If the additional option periods under the current contract are not exercised or the transition period under the new contract is shortened, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are not awarded the T3 North contract following the re-evaluation of the bids, we may be forced to wind-down our TRICARE operations after our existing contract concludes. The winding-down process could result in the need to incur a significant impairment charge due to severance and other costs incurred to terminate the operations that are in excess of transition-out payments received from the Department of Defense. The loss of the TRICARE business could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Federal and state audits, review and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We have been and, in some cases, currently are, involved in various federal and state governmental audits, reviews and investigations. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments and others pertaining to financial performance, market conduct and regulatory compliance issues. From time to time, CMS audits the risk adjustment scores that we apply to our Medicare members. For additional detail on the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism employed by CMS and risks associated with our Medicare business, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements and “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk.” Such audits, reviews and investigations could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in certain programs, or the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. We have entered into consent agreements relating to, and in some instances have agreed to pay fines in connection with, several recent audits and investigations. In addition, state attorneys general have become increasingly active in investigating the activities of health plans, and we have received in the past, and may continue to receive in the future, subpoenas and other requests for information as part of these investigations. Many regulatory audits, reviews and investigations in recent years have focused on the timeliness and accuracy of claims payments by managed care companies and health insurers. Our subsidiaries have been the subject of audits, reviews and investigations of this nature. Depending on the circumstances and the specific matters reviewed, regulatory findings could require remediation of claims payment errors and payment of penalties of material amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Beginning in November 2008, CMS performed a routine audit of certain of our Medicare Advantage, Private Fee For Service and PDP products and found deficiencies in many of the business areas included in the review. On August 6, 2009, CMS accepted our corrective action plan relating to the 2008 audit. In December 2009, CMS performed a focused audit to assess our implementation of the corrective action plan. We received CMS’ report on the focused audit and related corrective action request on January 11, 2010 and submitted our corrective action plan to CMS for review and approval on February 26, 2010. CMS found deficiencies in many of the business areas included in the review, including several repeat findings from previous audits, which were submitted to CMS Central Office for review. If the CMS Central Office believes that the repeat deficiencies are substantial, it could levy enforcement actions against us, including financial penalties and/or the suspension of marketing and enrollment into our Medicare products. Additionally, on January 7, 2010, we were notified by CMS that, due to certain pharmacy claims processing errors, none of our stand-alone PDP plans would be considered “available” for the purposes of the process through which CMS randomly assigns low-income subsidy (“LIS”) eligible Medicare beneficiaries not otherwise enrolled in PDP plans into stand-alone PDP plans, effective February 1, 2010. In its notice to us, CMS indicated that it would work with us to develop a corrective action plan in this regard, but we have not received a corrective action request from CMS. At this time, we do not expect the suspension of our auto-enrollment for LIS beneficiaries to have a material adverse effect on our Medicare business; however, if CMS were to impose substantial financial penalties and/or suspend the marketing of and enrollment into our other Medicare products for a significant period of time in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our Medicare business. In addition, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with regulations applicable to government contractors. Government investigations of us, whether relating to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines and/or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to litigation, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, we incur material expenses in the defense of litigation and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected if we fail to accurately project litigation expenses. We are currently, and may become in the future, subject to a variety of legal actions to which any corporation may be subject, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, fraud and misrepresentation claims, shareholder suits, including suits for securities fraud, and intellectual property and real estate related disputes. In addition, we incur and likely will continue to incur potential liability for claims related to the insurance industry in general and our business in particular, such as claims by members alleging failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, improper rescission, termination or non-renewal of coverage, insufficient payments for out-of-network services and claims relating to information security breaches; claims by employer groups for return of premiums; and claims by providers, including claims for withheld or otherwise insufficient compensation or reimbursement, claims related to self-funded business and claims related to reinsurance matters. Such actions can also include allegations of fraud, misrepresentation, and unfair or improper business practices and can include claims for punitive damages. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against various managed care organizations, including us. In some of the cases pending against us, substantial non-economic or punitive damages are also being sought. Additionally, in periods prior to and subsequent to acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions, there may be attempts to bring lawsuits or other actions to block or unwind these transactions. For instance, on January 13, 2010, the Connecticut State Medical Society, together with two member physicians in their individual capacities, filed an appeal in the Superior Court in New Britain, Connecticut seeking to overturn the Connecticut Department of Insurance’s approval of the Northeast Sale. 28 Table of Contents Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of the types of claims we face. There is a risk that we could incur substantial legal fees and expenses, including discovery expenses, in any of the actions we defend in excess of amounts budgeted for defense. Plaintiffs’ attorneys have increasingly used expansive electronic discovery requests as a litigation tactic. Responding to these requests, the scope of which may exceed the normal capacity of our historical systems for archiving and organizing electronic documents, may require application of significant resources and impose significant costs on us. In certain cases, we could also be subject to awards of substantial legal fees and costs to plaintiffs’ counsel. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty, and we are incurring material expenses in the defense of litigation matters, including without limitation, substantial discovery costs. While we currently have insurance policies that may provide coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation matters, there can be no assurance that coverage will be available for any particular case or liability. Insurers could dispute coverage or the amount of insurance could not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded or settlement amounts. In addition, certain liabilities such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. Insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level that would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. The deductible on our errors and omissions (“E&O”) insurance has reached such a level. Given the amount of the deductible, the only cases which would be covered by our E&O insurance are those involving claims that substantially exceed our average claim values and otherwise qualify for coverage under the terms of the insurance policy. We regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, to determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The costs associated with any such settlement could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in an earnings charge in any particular quarter in which we enter into a settlement agreement. Although we have recorded litigation reserves which represent our best estimate on probable losses, both known and incurred but not reported, our recorded reserves might prove to be inadequate to cover an adverse result or settlement for extraordinary matters, such as the matters described in Note 13. Therefore, costs associated with the various litigation matters to which we are subject and any earnings charge recorded in connection with a settlement agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to manage our general and administrative expenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The level of our administrative expenses can affect our profitability, and our ability to manage administrative expense increases is difficult to predict. While we attempt to effectively manage such expenses, including through the development of online functionalities and other projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, increases in staff-related and other administrative expenses may occur from time to time. These increases could be caused by any number of things, including difficulties or delays in projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, reliance on outsourced services, acquisitions and divestitures, business or product start-ups or expansions, changes in business or regulatory requirements, including compliance with HIPAA regulations, or other reasons. In November 2007, we announced a reorganization plan to enhance efficiency and achieve general and administrative cost savings. The reorganization is nearly complete and is intended to enable us to streamline our operations, including combining duplicative administrative and operational functions and outsourcing certain operations where appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that the reorganization will produce the anticipated savings. Under the United Administrative Services Agreements, HNNE has agreed to provide certain administrative services to the Acquired Companies until all of their members have either transitioned to legacy United products or non-renewed. As these operations wind-down, we will seek to reduce the scale of, and ultimately eliminate, certain of our administrative functions. In addition, we will need to reduce the scale of our overhead to reflect the smaller size of the remaining company. In the event that the costs of the wind-down are greater than we 29 Table of Contents anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected. There can be no assurances that these efforts will not significantly disrupt our operations, thereby negatively impacting our financial performance. Furthermore, our failure to successfully adjust our overhead and administrative expenses in proportion to the wind-down could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to managing administrative expenses, our profitability is also affected by our ability to effectively and quickly respond to events that require significant reductions and changes to the allocation of our administrative expenses. In the event that our TRICARE North operations are concluded, this will render redundant many of the management, administrative and operational functions previously required to maintain those operations. See “—Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—TRICARE” for additional detail regarding the status of the T3 North Region award. While we will need to significantly reduce, reallocate or eliminate these redundant administrative expenses, we cannot guarantee you that we will be successful in making these cuts and adjustments at a pace that will maintain or increase our profitability. In addition, we would expect to incur significant restructuring charges due to severance and other costs if we terminate our TRICARE North operations. Failure to adjust our overhead and other administrative expenses in proportion to these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals and other providers that we contract with, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers as a means to assure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments or take other actions, including litigation, which could result in higher health care costs, less desirable products for customers and members, disruption to provider access for current members or to support growth, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market our products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. We contract with professional providers in California primarily through capitation fee arrangements. Under a capitation fee arrangement, we pay a provider group a fixed amount per member on a regular basis and the provider group accepts the risk of the frequency and cost of member utilization of professional services, and in some cases, institutional services. Provider groups that enter into capitation fee arrangements generally contract with specialists and other secondary providers, and may contract with primary care physicians, to provide services. The inability of provider groups to properly manage costs under capitation arrangements can result in their financial instability and the termination of their relationship with us. A provider group’s financial instability or failure to pay secondary providers for services rendered could be exacerbated by the economic recession, and could lead secondary providers to demand payment from us, even though we have made our regular capitated payments to the provider group. Depending on state law, we could be liable for such claims. In California, for instance, the liability of our HMO subsidiaries for unpaid provider claims has not been definitively settled. There can be no assurance that we will not be liable for unpaid provider claims. There can also be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with secondary providers, the failure of any of which could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. Moreover, with the completion of the Northeast Sale our dependence on capitated provider groups has increased, as 68 percent of our West Operations members were enrolled with capitated provider groups as of December 31, 2009. Our strategy to expand commercial membership through narrow network products also places a greater emphasis on our relationships with certain capitated provider groups, as narrow network products significantly restrict covered members’ access to certain hospitals and physicians. If these capitated provider groups cannot provide comprehensive services to our 30 Table of Contents members in narrow network products or encounter financial difficulties, it could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. Some providers that render services to our members and insureds that have coverage for out-of-network services are not contracted with our plans and insurance companies. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and the plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider; rather, the plan’s obligation is to reimburse the member based upon the terms of the member’s plan. In some states and product lines, the amount of reimbursement is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is established by a standard set forth in the plan that is not clearly translated into dollar terms, such as “maximum allowable amount” or “usual, customary and reasonable.” In such instances providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the plan or balance bill our member. Regulatory authorities in various states may also challenge the manner in which we reimburse members for services performed by non-contracted providers. As a result of litigation or regulatory activity, we may have to pay providers additional amounts or reimburse members for their out-of-pocket payments. The uncertainty about our financial obligations for such services and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of our original payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In addition, provider groups and hospitals that contract with us have in certain situations commenced litigation and/or arbitration proceedings against us to recover amounts they allege to be underpayments due to them under their contracts with us. We believe that provider groups and hospitals have become increasingly sophisticated in their review of claim payments and contractual terms in an effort to maximize their payments from us and have increased their use of outside professionals, including accounting firms and attorneys, in these efforts. These efforts and the litigation and arbitration that result from them could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the current unfavorable economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, it could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The economic conditions in the United States continue to be challenging. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, energy costs, rising unemployment rates, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and other capital, the U.S. mortgage market, consumer spending and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased market volatility and relatively low expectations for the U.S. economy. These events could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. These market conditions expose us to a number of risks, including risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers. If our customer base experiences cash flow problems or other financial difficulties, it could, in turn, adversely impact membership in our plans. For example, our customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, or may make changes in the mix of products purchased from us. If our customers experience financial issues, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business, and in order to compete effectively in our markets, we also must deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers and that are designed and priced properly and competitively. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. A significant decline in membership in our plans and the inability of current and/or potential customers to pay their premiums as a result of unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other providers and, as a result, could adversely affect our contracted rates with such parties and increase our medical costs. High unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs and the profitability of our operations. For example, in 2009, our 31 Table of Contents commercial membership decreased by 10.4 percent due, in part, to the difficult economic conditions in the regions where we do business. If economic conditions continue to be difficult and unemployment rates continue to be high, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An extended economic downturn could adversely affect state and federal budgets, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medi-Cal and CHIP. A reduction in California’s Medi-Cal reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. In addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause new or higher levels of assessments or taxes for our commercial programs, such as surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims or premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations, and could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, any enrollment freeze or significant delay in reimbursement payment could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Under the United Administrative Services Agreements, we are obligated to provide administrative services in connection with the wind-down and run-off of the acquired business, which exposes us to operational and financial risks. At the closing of the Northeast Sale, we entered into the United Administrative Services Agreements pursuant to which our subsidiary, HNNE, provides administrative services to the HMO and insurance subsidiaries formerly engaged in our Northeast operations. The scope of these administrative services include substantially all of the day-to-day operational functions of these entities, including (i) claims payment services and operations, (ii) medical management services, (iii) financial planning and analysis, (iv) actuarial and underwriting services, (v) corporate finance services, (vi) regulatory relations services, (vii) organization effectiveness (human resources) services, (viii) legal services, (ix) customer care operations, (x) information technology services, (xi) premium tax filing services, (xii) administration of governmental assessments, (xiii) broker commissions payment services, and (xiv) other administrative services. In addition, we have agreed to administer the Medicare business of the Acquired Companies for 2010 and potentially for 2011 (only if the related Medicare contract is not transferred to a non-Acquired Company affiliate of United as of January 1, 2011). If the underlying Medicare contract is not transferred and we are required to continue to administer this Medicare business for United, it could slow our ability to wind-down the business and could have an adverse impact on our profitability. The United Administrative Services Agreements require HNNE to perform the administrative services in accordance with specified service standards and other requirements. Subject to certain terms and conditions, if HNNE fails to comply with the service standards, among other things, it will be required to pay specified penalties in accordance with the United Administrative Services Agreements. We could fail to comply with the service standards for various reasons, some of which are not within our control. For example, the personnel needed to provide the administrative services could terminate their employment with us. The amount of penalties we could incur for violating the service standards could be substantial. If HNNE is unable to perform all or a material part of the services required under the United Administrative Services Agreements, and is unable to obtain an alternative means to provide such services, or if HNNE materially breaches the United Administrative Services Agreements, the service recipients may terminate the United Administrative Services Agreements. If such a termination occurs prior to the second anniversary of the closing date of the transaction, we and HNNE will be required to establish (and will be required to pay to United) a loss reserve, which, depending on when the United Administrative Services Agreements are terminated, could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “—Under the agreements that govern the Northeast Sale, we have retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the acquired business, which could be substantial,” for additional detail on when the loss 32 Table of Contents reserve is required to be established and paid. For additional information on the United Administrative Services Agreements, see “Item 1. Business—Segment Information—Northeast Operations”. Under the agreements that govern the Northeast Sale, we have retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the acquired business, which could be substantial. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, we are required to indemnify the Buyer and its affiliates for all pre-closing liabilities of the acquired business and for a broad range of excluded liabilities, including liabilities arising out of the acquired business incurred through the winding-up and running-out period of the acquired business. These liabilities could exceed the amount of profits that will be payable to us by the Buyer in connection with the operations of the acquired business. The Stock Purchase Agreement does not limit the amount or duration of our obligations to the Buyer and its affiliates with respect to these indemnities. As a result, in the event that the amount of these liabilities was to exceed our expectations, we could be responsible to the Buyer and its affiliates for substantial indemnification obligations. In addition, under the Stock Purchase Agreement, the purchase price for the acquired HMO and insurance subsidiaries is subject to adjustment upward or downward by the amount of profits or losses, subject to specified adjustments, of these subsidiaries for the period beginning on the closing date and ending on the earlier of (i) the second anniversary of the closing date (the “Transition Date”) and (ii) the date that all of the United Administrative Service Agreements are terminated (the “ASA Termination Date”). As a result, even though we do not own these subsidiaries, to the extent that they incur losses, we and HNNE generally will be financially responsible to the Buyer for the amount of such losses. Subject to certain terms and conditions, the Buyer will be permitted to exercise control rights over the subsidiaries after the closing without our or HNNE’s consent. The exercise of such rights by the Buyer, or other events or circumstances beyond our or HNNE’s control, could result in substantial losses for which HNNE will responsible to Buyer. Furthermore, in the event that the ASA Termination Date occurs prior to the Transition Date, among other things, in specified circumstances we and HNNE will be required to establish (and will be required to pay to Buyer) a loss reserve in an amount equal to an actuarially determined provision for medical costs and loss adjustment expenses as of the ASA Termination Date for all claims of the subsidiaries through the winding-up and running-out period of the acquired business (excluding certain unreserved claims). Depending on when the ASA Termination Date occurs, the amount of such loss reserve could be substantial. As a result of the provisions described above, we continue to have significant potential financial obligations to the Buyer and its affiliates with respect to the acquired business. In the event that the amount of these financial obligations exceed our expectations, our responsibilities to the Buyer and its affiliates with respect to these obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect our operations. Our indebtedness includes $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2017 and $104 million in borrowings under a financing facility which will amortize over a period ending December 2012. For a description of our Senior Notes and our financing facility, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure.” In addition, to provide liquidity, we have a $900 million five-year revolving credit facility that expires in June 2012. As of December 31, 2009, $100 million was outstanding under our revolving credit facility. We may incur additional debt in the future. Our existing indebtedness, and any additional debt we incur in the future through drawings on our revolving credit facility or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; 33 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We continually evaluate options to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors. Recently, credit markets have experienced unusual uncertainty, and liquidity and access to capital markets have tightened. See “—Adverse conditions in the credit markets may materially affect our ability to obtain credit.” Consequently, in the event we need to access the credit markets to refinance our debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. Concern about the stability of the markets generally has lead many lenders to reduce and in some cases cease to provide funding to borrowers. If markets remain tight, they may materially and adversely affect our ability to access additional capital to meet liquidity needs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current economic environment and uncertainty in the financial markets could have an adverse impact on the value of our investment portfolio and our goodwill which could, in turn, have a negative effect on our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Our investment portfolio is comprised primarily of available-for-sale investment securities such as interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities. As of December 31, 2009, our available-for-sale investment securities were $1.4 billion. The value of fixed-income securities is highly sensitive to fluctuations in short-and long-term interest rates, with the value decreasing as such rates increase and increasing as such rates decrease. These securities may also be negatively impacted by illiquidity in the market. We closely monitor the fair values of our investment securities and regularly evaluate them for any other-than-temporary impairments. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the principal amount invested. The current economic environment and uncertainty in the U.S. and global capital markets have negatively impacted the liquidity of investments, such as our debt securities, and a worsening in these markets could have additional negative effects on the liquidity and value of our investment assets. In addition, such uncertainty has increased the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Over time, the economic and capital market environment may further deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding the impairment of certain investments. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding our investment portfolio. In addition, our regulated subsidiaries are also subject to state laws and regulations that govern the types of investments that are allowable and admissible in those subsidiaries’ portfolios. There can be no assurance that 34 Table of Contents our investment assets will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative affect on our stockholders’ equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The economic environment and crisis in the financial markets that began in 2008 continued to impact our market capitalization during 2009. Our annual goodwill impairment test did not indicate any impairment in 2009 as a result of the fluctuations in our market capitalization. However, if our stock price experiences significant fluctuations or if our market capitalization materially declines, we could be required to update our goodwill impairment test prior to our regularly scheduled annual test in 2010. Depending on the results of any such impairment test, we could be required to take an impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill. If we were required to take such a charge, it would be non-cash and would not affect our liquidity, tangible equity or regulatory capital levels but could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by nationally recognized rating agencies are increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized rating agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. In addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. On July 15, 2009, in light of our announcement that we were not selected by the Department of Defense to be the Managed Care Support Contractor under the T3 North Region contract, Fitch Ratings announced that the outlook for the Company remained negative and downgraded the Company’s default issuer rating to “BB-” (speculative) from “BBB-” (lower medium grade), downgraded our senior debt rating to “B+” (highly speculative) from “BB+” (non-investment) and downgraded our insurer financial strength rating to “BBB-” from “BBB+,” both of which are lower medium grade ratings. On the same day, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) announced that the outlook for the Company remained negative and lowered its counterparty credit rating of the Company to “BB-” from “BB” and, at the same time, affirmed the “BBB-” financial strength and counterparty credit ratings of our core operating subsidiaries, Health Net of California and Health Net Life Insurance Company. Moody’s Investors Service also announced on the same day that it had placed the Company’s “Ba3” senior debt ratings under review for possible downgrade, also due to the loss of the T3 North Region contract. For additional detail regarding the current status of the T3 North Region contract award, please see “—Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—TRICARE”. On January 22, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed our “Ba3” senior debt ratings and changed the outlook for the Company to “stable.” Each of the rating agencies reviews our ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each rating agency’s independent opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders and other factors. Potential further downgrades from ratings agencies, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and a substantial amount of our cash flow is generated by our subsidiaries. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends and maintenance of minimum levels of capital. As a holding company, our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to pay our debt depends, in part, on the amount of cash that we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will depend on their earnings, business and tax considerations, legal and regulatory restrictions and economic conditions. In addition, in certain states our regulated subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital 35 Table of Contents requirements, known as RBC. These laws require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance in their state of domicile and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject certain of our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including increased reporting and/or state supervision. In addition, in most states, we are required to seek prior approval before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. If our regulated subsidiaries are restricted from paying us dividends or otherwise making cash transfers to us, it could have material adverse effect on our results of operations and Health Net, Inc.’s free cash flow. For additional information regarding our regulated subsidiaries’ statutory capital requirements, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Statutory Capital Requirements.” Our revolving credit facility and our financing facility contain restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. On June 25, 2007, we entered into a $900 million five-year revolving credit facility. On December 19, 2007, we entered into a $175 million financing facility. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure” for additional information regarding our revolving credit facility and our financing facility. Our revolving credit facility and our financing facility require us to comply with various covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments or other restricted payments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets and engage in other activities. Our revolving credit facility and our financing facility also require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure Amortizing Financing Facility” for details regarding the revolving credit facility and the financing facility. The restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility and our financing facility could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. In addition, any failure by us to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility, our financing facility, and, in some circumstances, under the indenture governing our Senior Notes, which, in any case, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by nationally recognized rating agencies are increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized rating agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. In addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. On July 15, 2009, in light of our announcement that we were not selected by the Department of Defense to be the Managed Care Support Contractor under the T3 North Region contract, Fitch Ratings announced that the outlook for the Company remained negative and downgraded the Company’s default issuer rating to “BB-” (speculative) from “BBB-” (lower medium grade), downgraded our senior debt rating to “B+” (highly speculative) from “BB+” (noninvestment) and downgraded our insurer financial strength rating to “BBB-” from “BBB+,” both of which are lower medium grade ratings. On the same day, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) announced that the outlook for the Company remained negative and lowered its counterparty credit rating of the Company to “BB-” from “BB” and, at the same time, affirmed the “BBB-” financial strength and counterparty credit ratings of our core operating subsidiaries, Health Net of California and Health Net Life Insurance Company. Moody’s Investors Service also announced on the same day that it had placed the Company’s “Ba3” senior debt ratings under review for possible downgrade, also due to the loss of the T3 North Region contract. For additional detail regarding the 36 Table of Contents current status of the T3 North Region contract award, please see “—Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—TRICARE”. On January 22, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed our “Ba3” senior debt ratings and changed the outlook for the Company to “stable.” Each of the rating agencies reviews our ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each rating agency’s independent opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders and other factors. Potential further downgrades from ratings agencies, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive. If we do not design and price our product offerings competitively, our membership and profitability could decline. We are in a highly competitive industry. Many of our competitors may have certain characteristics, capabilities or resources, such as greater market share, superior provider and supplier arrangements and existing business relationships, that give them an advantage in competing with us. These competitors include HMOs, PPOs, self-funded employers, insurance companies, hospitals, health care facilities and other health care providers. In addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future. In addition, financial services or other technology-based companies could enter the market and compete with us on the basis of their streamlined administrative functions. The addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. There is a risk that our customers may decide to perform for themselves functions or services currently provided by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, our providers and suppliers may decide to market products and services to our customers in competition with us. In recent years, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity in our industry and in industries that act as our suppliers, such as the hospital, medical group, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. This activity may create stronger competitors and/or result in higher health care costs. In addition, our contracts with government agencies, such as our TRICARE North contract, are frequently up for re-bid and the loss of any significant government contract to a competitor, such as the T3 North Region contract, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that there is strong competition or that competition intensifies in any market, our ability to retain or increase customers, our revenue growth, our pricing flexibility, our control over medical cost trends and our marketing expenses may all be adversely affected. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we do not design and price our products appropriately and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, if we do not provide satisfactory service levels, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or if membership or demand for other services declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the closing of the Northeast Sale, we entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with the Buyer that contains prohibitions which could negatively impact our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the agreement, we entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with the Buyer, pursuant to which we generally are prohibited from competing with the acquired business in the States of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Rhode Island for a period of five years, and from engaging in certain other restricted activities. Although we currently do not have any intention to engage in such prohibited activities during the term of the Non-Competition Agreement, circumstances could change and it may become in our best interests to engage in a business that is prohibited by the agreement. If this were to occur, in order to engage in the business we would be required to obtain the 37 Table of Contents Buyer’s consent under the Non-Competition Agreement, which the Buyer could withhold in its discretion. In the event that we are unable to engage in a business due to the terms of the Non-Competition Agreement, this could have an adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to effectively maintain our information management systems, it could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in, among other things, pricing our services, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims, billing our customers on a timely basis and identifying accounts for collection. Our customers and providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verification, claims status and other information. We have many different information systems for our various businesses and these systems require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity also requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems. Any difficulty or unexpected delay associated with the transition to or from information systems, including the current transition of our data center operations to a third-party vendor, any inability or failure to properly maintain information management systems, or any inability or failure to successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs, could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, regulatory problems, significant increases in administrative expenses and/or other adverse consequences. In addition, we may, from time-to-time, obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to adverse effects if such third parties fail to perform adequately. See “—We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties.” We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties. We contract with independent third party vendors who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. These third party vendors include, but are not limited to, information technology system providers, medical management providers, claims administration providers, billing and enrollment providers, third party service providers of actuarial services, call center providers and specialty service providers. Our arrangements with third party vendors may make our operations vulnerable if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of our information and data. Our outsourcing arrangements could be adversely impacted by changes in the vendors’ operations or financial condition or other matters outside of our control. If we fail to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors, we could be subject to additional risk. Violations of laws or regulations governing our business by third party vendors could increase our exposure to liability or otherwise increase the costs associated with the operation of our business. In addition, to the extent we outsource selected services or selected functions to third parties in foreign jurisdictions, we could be exposed to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions, additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws and fluctuations in currency values. Moreover, if these vendor relationships were terminated for any reason, we may not be able to find alternative partners in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms, and may incur significant costs in connection with any such vendor transition. As a result, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, we may not fully realize the anticipated economic and other benefits from our outsourcing projects or other relationships we enter into with third party vendors, as a result of regulatory restrictions on outsourcing, unanticipated delays in transitioning our operations to the third party vendor or otherwise. This could result in substantial costs or other operational or financial problems that could adversely impact our results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate the profitability realized or likely to be realized by our existing businesses and operations. From time to time we review, from a strategic standpoint, potential acquisitions and divestitures in light of our core businesses and growth strategies. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contractual terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into the Company’s existing operations. In the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer’s inability to fulfill these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. Potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, significant post-closing obligations, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. We completed the sale of our Northeast operations on December 11, 2009. Risks associated with that divestiture are described in “—Under the United Administrative Services Agreements, we are obligated to provide administrative services in connection with the wind-down and run-off of the acquired business, which exposes us to operational and financial risks” and “—Under the agreements that govern the Northeast Sale, we have retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the acquired business, which could be substantial.” Further, in the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer’s inability to fulfill these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. The value of our intangible assets may become impaired. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $640 million as of December 31, 2009, representing approximately 15 percent of our total assets and 38 percent of our consolidated stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2009. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding estimated fair value including assumptions and estimates related to future earnings and membership levels based on current and future plans and initiatives, long-term strategies and our annual planning and forecasting processes, as well as the expected weighted average cost of capital used in the discount process. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against income. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially impact our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. From time to time, we divest businesses that are less of a strategic fit for the company or do not produce an adequate return. Any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We completed the Northeast Sale on December 11, 2009. In connection with the Northeast Sale, we assessed the recoverability of goodwill and our long-lived assets, including other intangible assets, property and equipment and other long-term assets related to our Northeast Operations reporting segment during the quarter ended September 30, 2009. As a result, in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 we recorded $170.6 million in total asset impairments, including goodwill impairment of $137.0 million, impairments of other intangible assets of $6.0 million and property and equipment of $27.6 million. During this period we also 39 Table of Contents recorded an additional $4.3 million of asset impairment on the long-lived assets related to our Northeast operations. Upon the consummation of the Northeast Sale on December 11, 2009, we recorded a pretax loss on sale of $105.9 million. While these non-cash impairment charges and pretax loss had no impact on our liquidity position, they did have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. We must comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. In December 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services promulgated regulations under HIPAA related to the privacy and security of electronically transmitted protected health information (“PHI”). The regulations require health plans, clearinghouses and providers to: comply with various requirements and restrictions related to the use, storage, transmission and disclosure of PHI; adopt rigorous internal procedures to safeguard PHI; and enter into specific written agreements with business associates to whom PHI is disclosed. The regulations also establish significant criminal penalties and civil sanctions for non-compliance. In addition, the regulations could expose us to additional liability for, among other things, violations of the regulations by our business associates, including the third party vendors involved in our outsourcing projects. The HITECH Act, which became fully effective in February 2010, expanded the HIPAA rules for security and privacy safeguards, including improved enforcement, additional limitations on use and disclosure of PHI and additional potential penalties. Although our contracts with business associates provide for appropriate protections of PHI, we may have limited control over the actions and practices of our business associates. Compliance with HIPAA and other state and federal privacy and security regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by ourselves or our business associates. See “—If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected” for detail regarding our recent information security breach. If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our businesses are regulated at the federal and state levels. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” for additional information on the federal and state regulations that govern how we conduct our business. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. For example, a portable, external hard drive holding PHI of certain of our enrollees, such as Social Security numbers and medical data, was discovered missing from our Northeast headquarters in Shelton, Connecticut in May 2009. While the information stored on the hard drive was saved in an image format that cannot be read without special software, we subsequently commenced a lengthy investigation of the contents of the hard drive, including a detailed forensic review by computer experts, reported the loss to authorities and began notifying our customers of the incident. On January 13, 2010, the Connecticut Attorney General filed a complaint in federal court in Connecticut alleging that we had violated HIPAA and the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act in connection with the loss of the disk drive. The complaint seeks injunctive relief as well as statutory damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our business associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including but not limited to: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; litigation; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. Additionally, the costs incurred to remediate any data security incident could be 40 Table of Contents substantial. See “—We must comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA” for additional information on requirements and restrictions related to the use, storage, transmission and disclosure of PHI. We depend, in part, on independent brokers and sales agents to market our products and services, and recent regulatory investigations have focused on certain brokerage practices, including broker compensation arrangements and bid quoting practices. We market our products and services both through sales people employed by us and through independent sales agents. Independent sales agents typically do not work with us on an exclusive basis and may market health care products and services of our competitors. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent sales agents and we cannot assure you that these agents will continue to market our products at a reasonable cost. Although we have a number of sales employees and agents, if key sales employees or agents or a large subset of these individuals were to leave us, our ability to retain existing customers and members could be impaired. There have been a number of investigations and enforcement actions against insurance brokers and insurers over the last several years regarding allegedly inappropriate or undisclosed payments made by insurers to brokers for the placement of insurance business. For example, CMS has increased its scrutiny of insurance brokers and insurers regarding allegedly improper sales and marketing practices in connection with the sale of Medicare products. While we are not aware of any unlawful practices by the Company or any of our agents or brokers in connection with the marketing and sales of our products and services, investigations by state attorneys general, CMS and other regulators, as well as regulatory changes initiated in several states in response to allegedly inappropriate broker conduct and broker payment practices, could result in changes in industry practices that could have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products. We have historically experienced significant turnover in senior management. If we are unable to manage the succession of our key executives, it could adversely affect our business. We have experienced a high turnover in our senior management team in recent years. Although we have succession plans in place and have employment arrangements with our key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these key executives will continue to be available to us. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team. Our forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties. Our performance may not be consistent with these forecasts and forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and, as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. The achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this Annual Report, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the volatility in the financial markets and challenging economic conditions may make it particularly difficult to forecast our future performance. As a result, we cannot assure that our performance will meet any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire mix of publicly available historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting us, our services, and our industry when evaluating our forecasts and other forward-looking statements relating to our operations and financial performance. 41 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. In 2009, the Morgan Stanley Healthcare Payor Index (the “HMO Index”), an index comprised of 11 managed care organizations, including Health Net, recorded an approximate 53.4% increase in its value, while the per-share value of our common stock increased by 113.9%. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will vary in a manner consistent with the variation in the HMO Index or the Standard & Poor’s 400 Mid-Cap Index of which our common stock is also a component. The market prices of our common stock and the securities of certain other publicly-traded companies in our industry have shown significant volatility and sensitivity in response to many factors, including public communications regarding managed care, legislative or regulatory actions, health care reform, litigation or threatened litigation, health care cost trends, pricing trends, competition, earnings, receivable collections or membership reports of particular industry participants, and market speculation about or actual acquisition activity. Additionally, adverse developments affecting any one of the companies in our sector could cause the price of our common stock to weaken, even if those adverse developments do not otherwise affect us. There can be no assurances regarding the level or stability of our share price at any time or the impact of these or any other factors on our stock price. Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Managed health care companies have received and continue to receive negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. For example, the Company and the managed health care industry have been subject to negative publicity surrounding practices in connection with the rescission of individual health insurance policies. In addition, health care and related health care reform proposals have been and are expected to continue to be the subject of intense media attention and political debate. Such political discourse can often generate publicity that portrays managed care in a negative light. Our marketing efforts may be affected by the amount of negative publicity to which the industry has been subject, as well as by speculation and uncertainty relating to merger and acquisition activity among companies in our industry. Speculation, uncertainty or negative publicity about us, our industry or our lines of business could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products or services, require changes to our products or services, or stimulate additional legislation, regulation, review of industry practices or litigation that could adversely affect us. Large-scale public health epidemics and/or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An outbreak of a pandemic disease and/or future terrorist activities, including bio-terrorism, could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. Depending on the government’s actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and insurance companies, a large-scale public health epidemic or future acts of bio-terrorism could lead to, among other things, increased use of health care services, disruption of information and payment systems, increased health care costs due to increased in-patient and out-patient hospital costs and the cost of any anti-viral medication used to treat affected people. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, tornado, power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our members and providers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to maintain fully redundant systems for our operations in the event of a natural disaster utilizing various alternate sites provided by a national disaster recovery vendor. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such 42 Table of Contents disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 