ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the Company and may be material to the Company. The Company has listed the known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the Company and its operations. The forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management’s current expectations, and the Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 21 Table of Contents For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of “Competition” under Item 1 of this Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2013 Annual Report, and “Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2013 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2013 Annual Report. The Company also encourages investors to review its disclosures with respect to its proposed business combination with TXI, including the risks and other factors that will be described in the joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (as may be amended from time to time) that the Company intends to file with the SEC when it becomes available. Our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. The current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. The overall United States economy moved at a tepid pace during 2013. Economic and political uncertainty impeded significant growth during the year. Demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. Several of our top sales states have stopped or slowed bidding projects in their transportation departments. We sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. Since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. During the past few years, the overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. If economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. The recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. Construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. While our aggregates operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states of our Aggregates business (based on net sales by state of destination) of Texas, North Carolina, Colorado, Iowa, and Georgia, our profitability will decrease. We experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. 22 Table of Contents The historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. For the last four years, our aggregates shipments ranged from 125 million tons to 130 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. During 2013 our overall aggregates shipments were relatively flat compared with 2012 levels. Prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the United States had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. While historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, during 2013 the uncertainty created by the Federal government shutdown and the lack of a successor federal highway bill negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. This uncertainty was accompanied by a reduction in many states’ investment in highway maintenance. In July 2012, the President signed into law the successor federal highway bill known as MAP-21, which was designed to maintain highway spending at current annual levels of approximately $40 billion in funding for transportation infrastructure through fiscal 2014. MAP-21 also greatly expands TIFIA funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $750 million in fiscal 2013 and $1 billion in fiscal 2014. While the enactment of MAP-21 resulted in an increase in infrastructure spending for a period of time, MAP-21 expires on September 30, 2014. We are not clear when or in what form there might be a successor bill to MAP-21. The recent Federal government shutdown and the general uncertainty about governmental spending in general have also reduced confidence in long-term funding for transportation beyond the September 2014 expiration of MAP-21. This uncertainty has caused some states and cities to cancel or defer large scale, long-term construction projects, which hurt infrastructure spending in 2013. Our aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market decreased 7% in 2013 compared with 2012 after being flat in 2012 compared with 2011. We believe that the demand and need for infrastructure projects will support consistent growth in this market once long-term federal funding is resolved beyond 2014. In 2013, 45% of our aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market. Within the construction industry, we also sell our aggregates products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. Nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. We experienced an 8% increase in aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2013, with increased aggregates shipments in certain of our geographic markets to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail. During 2013, a strengthened residential market precipitated nonresidential construction activities to serve increased populations. Specifically, the commercial component of nonresidential construction generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. We expect continued stable aggregate shipments to the heavy industry component of nonresidential, predominantly the energy sector. Shale field activity remains strong, particularly at the Eagle Ford Shale field in south Texas and the Marcellus field in Pennsylvania. We should benefit from shale energy investments, particularly as additional shale-related development moves into downstream projects, such as public infrastructure and industrial building. In 2013, 31% of our aggregates shipments were to the nonresidential construction market. We expect the nonresidential construction market to increase notably in 2014. 23 Table of Contents Our aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 11% in 2013. Housing strength varies considerably in different areas of the country. We saw significant residential growth in our key geographic markets, including Colorado, Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina. The U.S. Census Bureau reported the total value of private residential construction put in place in 2013 increased 18%, helped by further gains in multi-family housing and a strengthening single-family market. Furthermore, housing permits and housing starts, key indicators for residential construction activity, continue to show year-over-year improvement, although starts are still below the 50-year historical annual average of 1.5 million starts. The U.S. Census Bureau estimated 923,000 housing units were started in 2013, up 18.3%, with the rate of housing starts significantly exceeding completions. The upward trend is expected to continue in 2014, with substantial expansion during the second half of the year. According to McGraw Hill Construction, for the first time since 2007, total housing starts are estimated to exceed 1 million units in 2014, bringing the level of construction closer to the demographic demand for single-family housing. In 2013, 14% of our aggregates shipments were to the residential construction market. Shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high-calcium carbonate material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (collectively “ChemRock/Rail”) accounted for 10% of our aggregates shipments and decreased 1% in 2013. This reduction was principally due to a decrease in agricultural lime shipments in 2013 because of wet weather. Ballast shipments were flat in 2013 compared with 2012 levels. Our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. Our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. So our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. In 2013, Congress provided virtually no increase in federal transportation investment for highway, transit, and runway construction, which negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. The federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. The most recent federal highway bill passed in 2012, MAP-21, provides annual funding at current levels of approximately $40 billion through September 30, 2014, with modest increases to reflect projected inflation. MAP-21 also greatly expands TIFIA funding, a federal alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects, to $1 billion in fiscal 2014. MAP-21 is not subject to potential sequestration under current federal law. TIFIA is also not subject to federal debt ceiling limits. However, authorized transfers from the General Fund to the Highway Trust Fund are subject to potential sequestration. Given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that Congress will not take action that might impact MAP-21 or TIFIA or that Congress will pass a successor federal highway bill or will extend the provisions of the current bill when it expires in 2014. Federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. Each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. The annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the Highway Trust Fund. Once the annual appropriation is passed, funds 24 Table of Contents are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). Apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. The Highway Trust Fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. These shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. In response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the General Fund into the Highway Trust Fund over the past several years. Based on current spending and revenue trends, the U.S. Department of Transportation projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the Highway Trust Fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner before September 30, 2014, the same time MAP-21 expires. Therefore, timely Congressional action is needed to address the funding mechanism for the Highway Trust Fund and to enact a longer-term federal highway bill. We cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. At the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. Delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. Many states have experienced state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. North Carolina was among the states experiencing these pressures, and this state disproportionately affects our revenues and profits. Most state budgets, including North Carolina, began to improve in 2013 as increased tax revenues helped states resolve budget deficits. States have also taken on a larger role in funding sustained infrastructure investment. We anticipate further growth in state-level funding initiatives, such as bond issues, toll roads, and special purpose taxes, as states address infrastructure needs, particularly in periods of federal funding uncertainty. Nevertheless, it is a continuing risk to our business that sufficient funding from federal, state, and local sources will not be available to address infrastructure needs. Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather. Since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. Adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. Severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. The construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. Because of the weather’s effect on the construction industry’s activity, the production and shipment levels for the Company’s Aggregates business, including all of its vertically-integrated operations, vary by quarter. The second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. 25 Table of Contents Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. Our business is a capital-intensive business. The property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. Therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. We believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Our businesses face many competitors. Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. Some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. As another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. While the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. 26 Table of Contents We may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. We operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. We have acquired many companies since 1995. Some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. We have sold some underperforming and other non-strategic assets. We have provided under the initial heading “Recent Developments” under Item I of this Form 10-K a description of our proposed business combination with TXI. The merger agreement with TXI requires us to pay, subject to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, the entire purchase price in the proposed business combination with TXI with shares of our common stock, which would dilute the ownership interests of our current shareholders. See “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposed Business Combination with TXI” For certain of the risks and uncertainties related to our proposed business combination with TXI. Vertically-integrated businesses have lower profit margins and can be more volatile. For 2013, our asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses accounted for about 22% of the net sales of our Aggregates business, up from 20% in 2012 and 8% in 2011. These businesses typically provide lower profit margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than our aggregates product line due to potentially volatile input costs, highly competitive market dynamics, and minimal barriers to entry. Therefore, as we expand these operations, our gross margins are likely to be adversely affected. The mix of vertically-integrated operations lowered the gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our Aggregates business by 260 basis points in 2013. The gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our Aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our vertically-integrated operations. Short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy, and raw materials affect our businesses. Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. The financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. Moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. For example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. We do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. In 2012, while the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 5% higher compared to 2011, this was offset by a decline of 25% from 2011 on our average cost for natural gas. This trend reversed in 2013, when the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 4% lower compared to 2012, but the average cost of natural gas increased 18% from 2012. The Specialty Products business has fixed price agreements for the supply of a portion of its coal and natural gas needs in 2014. 27 Table of Contents Similarly our vertically-integrated operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mix concrete, respectively. These raw materials are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. The financial results of our vertically-integrated operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. 2012 saw continued volatility in the costs for these raw materials. For 2013, however, we saw lower prices for these raw materials than 2012. Road paving construction operations present additional risks to our business. Our vertically-integrated operations also present challenges in the paving construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. In some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. Under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. In our road paving construction operations we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time or our original bid. These same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. These risks are somewhat mitigated by the fact that a majority of our road paving contracts are for short duration projects. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. We take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. 28 Table of Contents These risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. Labor unions represent 16.3% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. Our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Manistee, Michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio lime plant expire in August 2015 and June 2014, respectively. Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, or ship. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. The availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. Rail cars can be used to transport many different types of products. If owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products. We have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our Bahamas and Nova Scotia operations to various coastal ports. These contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2014 to 2017 and generally contain renewal options. Our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. When we sold our River District operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with Lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. As a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the Mississippi River. We still distribute some of 29 Table of Contents our product by barge along rivers in West Virginia. We may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations. Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. The accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. While we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. Accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. We urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. We urge you to read about our accounting policies in Note A of our 2013 financial statements. The federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the United States for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. Proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. We have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other related rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance. Reports from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (“PCAOB”) inspections of public accounting firms continue to outline findings and recommendations which could require these firms to perform additional work as part of their financial statement audits. The Company’s costs to respond to these additional requirements and exposure to adverse findings by the PCAOB of the work performed may increase as to internal controls. 30 Table of Contents We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. We have considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the Company’s business. Demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, has already been negatively affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues and the uncertainty over future highway funding levels beyond the September 2014 expiration of MAP-21. Further, delays or cancellations to capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence continues to be eroded by economic uncertainty. A recessionary construction economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. We are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. Nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this construction downturn, which can negatively affect operating cash flows. Historically, our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. During the economic downturn, we have temporarily idled some of our facilities. In 2013, the Company’s Aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the Company’s ability to capitalize $50.7 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. If demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. The timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. During the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. If practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. Because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. When temporarily idled locations reopen, we may incur additional repair costs for a temporary period. Nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. The credit environment could impact the Company’s ability to borrow money in the future. Additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. Further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. 31 Table of Contents We may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. Any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. While management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. While management believes the Company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. On January 28, 2014, Moody’s Investors Service announced it was placing our credit ratings under review for downgrade as a result of our announcement of the proposed business combination with TXI. Similarly, on the same day Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services placed our credit ratings on their CreditWatch with negative implications because of the proposed transaction. On the other hand, on January 29, 2014, Fitch Ratings, after reviewing the proposed transaction, reaffirmed our credit rating outlook as stable. While we do not believe that a review by Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s should result in a reduction of our credit ratings, there is no guarantee of such outcome. Our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. Our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. The specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. Our specialty products business now runs at capacity so unexpected changes could affect its earnings. Because our Specialty Products business essentially runs at capacity, any unplanned changes in costs or customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of this segment of our business. Our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. Acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: • We may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; • We may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • We may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; 32 Table of Contents • Our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; • We may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or • We may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and North Carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and North Carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified Board of Directors; • the ability of the Board of Directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and • super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the Board of Directors. Additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. Changes in our effective income tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective income tax rate, including: • Governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction, to fund deficits; • The jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; 33 Table of Contents • The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • Changes in available tax credits; • Changes in stock-based compensation; • Other changes in tax laws, and • The interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. Any significant increase in our future effective income tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. We are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and routinely test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Risk Factors Relating to Proposed Business Combination with TXI We have provided under the initial heading “Recent Developments” under Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K a description of our proposed business combination with TXI. The proposed business combination with TXI presents risks and uncertainties that should be considered by someone purchasing or considering the purchase of our securities. Some of these risks have been described in connection with the discussion of various general risks described above. Other risk factors relating to our proposed business combination with TXI are discussed below. The following discussion is not intended as a substitute for the discussion of the proposed transaction contained in our joint proxy statement/prospectus used in connection with our proposed business combination with TXI. For further information regarding the proposed business combination with TXI, including additional risks and uncertainties related thereto, please review the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that the Company intends to file with the SEC (as may be amended from time to time), as well as the Company’s other disclosures relating to the proposed business combination with TXI, when they become available. See also “Important Additional Information” under Item 9B of this Form 10-K below. 34 Table of Contents The proposed business combination with TXI is subject to approval by the Company’s shareholders and TXI’s stockholders and our ability to complete the proposed business combination with TXI is subject to the receipt of antitrust clearance from governmental entities, which may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or TXI or cause us to abandon the proposed business combination with TXI. In order for the proposed business combination with TXI to be completed, TXI stockholders must approve the adoption of the merger agreement and the Company’s shareholders must approve the issuance of the Company’s common stock to TXI stockholders in connection with the merger. In addition, we are unable to complete the proposed business combination with TXI until after the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, expires or is terminated and certain other conditions in the merger agreement are satisfied, or if legally permitted, waived. In deciding whether to terminate the antitrust waiting period or allow it to expire, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), which is reviewing the proposed business combination with TXI, will consider the effect of the proposed business combination with TXI on competition within the relevant markets. The DOJ may seek a court order enjoining the proposed business combination with TXI, or may seek an agreement from us imposing certain requirements or obligations as conditions for not seeking an injunction or otherwise challenging the proposed business combination with TXI and allowing the expiration of the antitrust waiting period. The merger agreement requires us to accept certain conditions from regulators that could adversely impact the Company without us having the right to refuse to close the proposed business combination with TXI on the basis of those regulatory conditions. We can provide no assurance that we will obtain the necessary antitrust clearance and that any required conditions will not have a material adverse effect on us following the proposed business combination with TXI. In addition, we can provide no assurance that the regulatory review process or the regulatory conditions will not result in a delay or the abandonment of the proposed business combination with TXI. Failure to complete the proposed business combination with TXI could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If the proposed business combination with TXI is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including: • being required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $25 million or $140 million to TXI; • having to pay certain costs relating to the proposed business combination with TXI, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor, filing, printing and mailing fees; • under the merger agreement, being subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain business strategies; and 35 Table of Contents • the focus of our management on the proposed business combination with TXI instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to the Company; in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having the proposed business combination with TXI completed. In addition, if the proposed business combination with TXI is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our respective customers and employees. We could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the proposed business combination with TXI or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. If the proposed business combination with TXI is not completed, we can provide no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. Any delay in completing the proposed business combination with TXI may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits from the transaction. In addition to the required regulatory clearance and the shareholder and stockholder approvals described above, the proposed business combination with TXI is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay, or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the proposed business combination with TXI for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the proposed business combination with TXI could cause us not to realize some or all of the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the proposed business combination with TXI is successfully completed within its expected time frame. The pendency of, and uncertainties associated with, the proposed business combination with TXI could adversely affect our business and operations. In connection with the pending proposed business combination with TXI, some customers, suppliers, and other entities with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer decisions, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings, and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the proposed business combination with TXI is completed. In addition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company following the closing of the proposed business combination with TXI, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the proposed business combination with TXI. No assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key management personnel and other key employees of the Company or, following the closing of the proposed business combination with TXI, TXI. The proposed business combination with TXI will involve substantial costs. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs and expenses relating directly to the proposed business combination with TXI, including debt refinancing costs, costs relating to change in control agreements at TXI, fees and expenses payable to financial advisors, other professional fees and expenses, insurance premium costs, fees and costs relating to regulatory filings and notices, SEC filing fees, printing and mailing costs and other transaction-related costs, fees and 36 Table of Contents expenses. In addition, we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems of TXI with those of the Company. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings and revenue synergies related to the integration of the businesses following the completion of the proposed business combination with TXI. These integration expenses likely will result in our taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the proposed business combination with TXI, but the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. Following the proposed business combination with TXI, we may be unable to integrate the Company and TXI successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with TXI. The proposed business combination with TXI involves the combination of two companies which currently operate as independent public companies. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with TXI if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: • the inability to successfully combine the businesses of the Company and TXI in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the proposed business combination with TXI, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with TXI not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the Company or TXI deciding not to do business with the Company; • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; • integrating personnel from the Company and TXI; • creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the proposed business combination with TXI; and • performance shortfalls at one or both of the Company and TXI as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the proposed business combination with TXI and integrating the Company’s and TXI’s operations. 37 Table of Contents In addition, we and TXI have operated and, until the completion of the proposed business combination with TXI, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the diversion of each company’s management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with TXI, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. The market price of our common stock may decline in the future as a result of the proposed business combination with TXI. The market price of our common stock may decline in the future as a result of the proposed business combination with TXI for a number of reasons, including the unsuccessful integration of the Company and TXI (including for the reasons set forth in the preceding risk factor) or our failure to achieve the perceived benefits of the proposed business combination with TXI, including financial results, as rapidly as or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts. These factors are, to some extent, beyond our control. The proposed business combination with TXI may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We currently anticipate that the proposed business combination with TXI will be accretive to earnings per share in 2014, assuming refinancing of TXI’s outstanding debt at or around the closing of the proposed business combination with TXI and excluding one-time costs. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. We could also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the proposed business combination with TXI. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the proposed business combination with TXI and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the proposed business combination with TXI. Following the proposed business combination with TXI, the size of the business of the Company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either the Company’s or TXI’s current businesses. In addition, we may continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions or other strategic transactions. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage our expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected economies of scale, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits currently anticipated from the proposed business combination with TXI or anticipated from any additional acquisitions or strategic transactions. 38 Table of Contents Our current shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the Company after the closing of the proposed business combination with TXI and will exercise less influence over the Company’s management. Our current shareholders currently have the right to vote in the election of our Board of Directors and other matters affecting the Company. Immediately after the proposed business combination with TXI is completed, it is expected that our current shareholders will own approximately 69% of our common stock and current TXI stockholders will own approximately 31% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of the proposed business combination with TXI, our current shareholders will have less influence on our management and policies than they now have. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the staff of the SEC one hundred and eighty (180) days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 