ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities. This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking statements in this Form 21 Table of Contents 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance. Factors that the Company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. In addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry. The current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our business. The overall United States economy remains weak, with national debt at a record high and commercial and consumer credit availability remaining tight. While we were encouraged by an increase in our aggregates shipments in 2010, the first year of volume growth since 2005, 2011 saw volume drop off again, as our overall aggregates shipments declined 3.8% over 2010 levels (with heritage aggregates shipments declining 3.5% over 2010 levels, as discussed in more detail below). Demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and residential construction markets, could continue to fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. Several of our top sales states have stopped or slowed bidding projects in their transportation departments. We sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. Since our business depends on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. The overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. If economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. The recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt. Construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts. While our aggregates operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of Texas, North Carolina, Iowa, Georgia, and South Carolina, our profitability will decrease. We experienced this situation with the recent economic recession. 22 Table of Contents The historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. For the last three years our aggregates shipments ranged from 123 million tons to 130 million tons, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability. Our aggregates volumes decreased 3.8% in 2011 after a 5.4% increase in 2010 in shipments over 2009 levels representing our first year of volume growth since 2005. Our heritage aggregates shipments decreased 3.5% in 2011 over 2010. We determine our heritage aggregates volume by excluding tonnage from operations we acquired during the year that were not included in previous year operations and operations we divested during the year. Prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the United States had declined almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. While historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, the current uncertainty created by the lack of a successor federal highway bill has negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. There has been a reduction in many states’ investment in highway maintenance. In February 2009, President Obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which was designed to stimulate the economy by providing over $29 billion in new funding for transportation infrastructure. However, the lack of shovel-ready projects and the substitution of stimulus funds for other projects delayed and limited the impact of this stimulus spending on the aggregates industry. At the end of 2011, only about 15% of these infrastructure funds remained, which by law must be spent in 2012. We cannot be assured of the remaining impact of the stimulus plan. Weakness in the United States economy and uncertainty in long-term federal infrastructure spending hurt infrastructure spending in 2011. The federal stimulus plan is also winding down as all stimulus projects must be completed by the end of 2012. Our heritage aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market decreased 5% in 2011. We remain optimistic that the demand and need for infrastructure projects support consistent growth in this market once long-term federal funding is resolved. Approximately 54% of our heritage aggregates shipments in 2011 were to the infrastructure construction market. Within the construction industry, we sell our aggregates products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. Nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, historical merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit availability. We experienced a 3% decrease in heritage aggregates shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2011, with shipments to the energy sector to support natural gas drilling and exploration projects reduced in part because of lower natural gas prices. These reductions were offset in part by growth in heritage aggregates shipments to the commercial part of nonresidential construction, namely office and retail, which generally follows the residential construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. We expect this component of the nonresidential construction market to experience modest volume recovery in 2012. Approximately 26% of our heritage aggregates shipments in 2011 were to the nonresidential construction market. 23 Table of Contents Our heritage aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 4% in 2011. While the Federal Reserve kept the federal funds rate at 0% throughout the year, overall weakness in the U.S. economy and reduced consumer lending by banks limited the impact of this low rate. The excess supply of developed lots also stifled new housing starts and limited the more aggregates-intensive subdivision development typically seen in a residential volume recovery. Although we expect moderate improvement in the residential construction market in 2012, housing starts are not expected to achieve a normalized level, estimated at 1.5 million starts nationally, until 2016, according to McGraw Hill Construction. Approximately 8% of our heritage aggregates shipments in 2011 were to the residential construction market. Consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan would increase our exposure to unfavorable conditions in the residential construction market. Vulcan’s sales and volumes in Arizona, Florida, and California have been negatively impacted by foreclosures and a decline in residential construction. Vulcan’s sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until there is a recovery in residential construction. Shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of material used for agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (“ChemRock/Rail”) accounted for approximately 12% of our heritage aggregates shipments and decreased slightly in 2011. Three of our top ten customers in 2011 were Class I railroads. We expect our ChemRock/Rail shipments to be relatively flat in 2012 compared to 2011. Our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources. Our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar projects. So our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects. The federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. The most recent federal highway bill passed in 2005 provided funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs, but ended September 30, 2009. While a multi-year successor federal highway bill has not been approved, Congress has extended the provisions of the current law under eight continuing resolutions through March 31, 2012. Given the record level of national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that Congress will pass a multi-year successor federal highway bill or will continue to extend the provisions of the most recent law at the same levels. Historically, states have been reluctant to commit to long-term projects while under continuing resolutions. In fact, obligations for federal highway funds are at a five-year low through the first three months of the federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2012 and $1.06 billion less than were obligated during the first three months of fiscal 2011, when the highway bill was also operating under continuing resolutions. Federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. Each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for particular 24 Table of Contents programs. The annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the Highway Trust Fund. Once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). Apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. The Highway Trust Fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. These shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. In response to the projected shortfalls, money has been transferred from the General Fund into the Highway Trust Fund over the past three years. Presently, the Congressional Budget Office projects that the highway account, one of the two components of the Highway Trust Fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner sometime during fiscal 2012 or 2013. We cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. At the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. Delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. Nearly all states are now experiencing state-level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. North Carolina and Texas are among the states experiencing these pressures, and these states disproportionately affect our revenues and profits. Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather. Since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport material. Adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. Severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. The construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. Because of the weather’s effect on the construction industry’s activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. The second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable. The recent acquisitions of operations in the Denver, Colorado market increased the Company’s exposure to winter weather and risk of losses in the first and fourth quarters. Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine them economically. Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral 25 Table of Contents reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful. Our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business. The property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. Therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. We believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Our businesses face many competitors. Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. Some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. As another example, our aggregates business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products. Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. While the pace of acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. We may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. We operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return. 26 Table of Contents We have acquired many companies since 1995. Some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. We have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in Houston, Texas, and our road paving businesses in Shreveport, Louisiana, and Texarkana, Arkansas. We have provided under the initial heading “Recent Developments” under Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K a description of our proposed business combination with Vulcan. As presently proposed, we would pay the entire purchase price of the proposed business combination with Vulcan with shares of our common stock, which would dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. We believe, however, the proposed business combination with Vulcan would maximize long-term shareholder value. See “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposed Business Combination with Vulcan.” Short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses. Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. The financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. Moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. For example, in 2011, increases in energy costs when compared with 2010 lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.27 per diluted share. We do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. We take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future. We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities, which could be substantial. Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to 27 Table of Contents hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. These risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties. We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us. Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses. Labor unions represent 15.2% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of the hourly employees of our specialty products business. Our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Manistee, Michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio lime plant expire in August 2015 and June 2014, respectively. Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees. Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers, whether by truck, rail, ship, or barge. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. Water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. High water levels limit the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow barges. Low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. The availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our products. Rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. If owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars and barges to transport our products. We have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our Bahamas and Nova Scotia operations to various coastal ports. These contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2017 and generally contain renewal 28 Table of Contents options. Our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could affect our ability to transport our products. Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our estimates and assumptions could be wrong. The accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ. While we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. Accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. We urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results. The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. For example, beginning in 2009, we were required under new accounting standards to determine whether instruments granted in stock-based payment transactions under our employee benefit plans were considered “participating securities” and included in determining our earnings per share. This resulted in a reduction of our previously-reported net earnings and decreased our previously-reported earnings per share amounts. We urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in Note A of our 2011 financial statements. The federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would conform the accounting in the United States for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards. Proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. We have not looked at how all of these topics might impact us. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business. 29 Table of Contents Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business. The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. Demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level. A recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. We are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. Nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. Historically our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate. During this economic downturn we have been forced to temporarily idle some of our facilities. In 2011, the Company’s Aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which restricted the Company’s ability to capitalize $55.9 million of costs that could have been inventoried under normal operating conditions. If demand does not improve, such temporary idling could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. The timing of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. During the idling period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. If practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. Because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings. Nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if the economic downturn does not improve in the near term. The credit environment could impact the Company’s ability to borrow money in the future. Additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. Further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. In 2011, the Company entered into a new multi-year credit facility and amended its accounts credit facility with its banks. It used the proceeds from the new credit facility to repay maturing obligations, prepay other obligations, fund working capital, and other general corporate purposes. In addition in 2012 it amended its leverage ratio covenant under such new credit facility and accounts credit facility to ensure that the impact of business development costs for the proposed business combination with Vulcan and the seasonal working capital requirements for the newly-acquired Colorado operations do not impair liquidity available under such credit facilities. There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. We may be required to obtain financing in order to complete the proposed business combination with Vulcan or to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. Any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings 30 Table of Contents downgrade notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to the extent it is available to us. While management believes our credit ratings will remain at an investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. While management believes the Company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that. Our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels. Our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry. While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. The economic downturn has caused a significant decline in steel manufacturing. While steelmaking increased in 2011, it is still far below levels of the past. We anticipate this weakness to continue in 2012. The specialty products business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages. Our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. Acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: • We may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; • We may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • We may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; • Our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; • We may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or • We may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and North Carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor. Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and North Carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best 31 Table of Contents interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval; • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause; • the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and • super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders. In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the board of directors. Additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: • Governmental authorities increasing taxes to fund deficits; • The jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed; • The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • Changes in available tax credits; • Changes in share-based compensation; • Other changes in tax laws, and • The interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods. 32 Table of Contents We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. We are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Risk Factors Relating to Proposed Business Combination with Vulcan We have provided under the initial heading “Recent Developments” under Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K a description of our proposed business combination with Vulcan. Under the terms of the exchange offer, if consummated, each outstanding share of Vulcan common stock will be exchanged for 0.50 of a share of the Company’s common stock (together with the associated preferred stock purchase rights). Consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan presents risks that should be considered by someone purchasing or considering the purchase of our securities. Some of these risks have been described in connection with the discussion of various general risks described above. Other risk factors relating to our proposed business combination with Vulcan are discussed below. The following discussion is not intended as a substitute for the discussion of the proposed transaction contained in our prospectus/offer to exchange used in connection with our proposed business combination with Vulcan. For further information regarding the proposed business combination with Vulcan, please review the prospectus/offer to exchange included in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on December 12, 2011 with the SEC (as may be amended from time to time), as well as the Company’s other disclosures relating to the proposed business combination with Vulcan. See also “Important Additional Information” under Item 9B of this Form 10-K below. The exchange ratio of the proposed business combination with Vulcan is fixed and will not be adjusted. Each outstanding share of Vulcan common stock will be exchanged for the right to receive 0.50 shares of our common stock (together with the associated preferred stock purchase rights) upon consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan. This exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted, including in the event of any increase in the price of our common stock or a decrease in the price of Vulcan common stock. In certain circumstances, Vulcan shareholders could receive more value for their shares in the proposed business combination than the value calculated pursuant to the exchange ratio on the date the offer was announced. Because the proposed business combination with Vulcan may not be completed until certain conditions have been satisfied or waived, a significant period of time may pass between the commencement of the offer and the time that we accept shares of Vulcan common stock for exchange. 33 Table of Contents We have not negotiated the price or terms of the proposed business combination with Vulcan with Vulcan’s board of directors. We have not negotiated the price or terms of the proposed business combination with Vulcan or its board of directors. Neither Vulcan nor its board of directors has approved the proposed business combination with Vulcan. In response to the commencement of our offer on December 12, 2011, Vulcan filed with the SEC on December 22, 2011 its Schedule 14D-9 reporting that Vulcan’s board of directors had determined to recommend that Vulcan shareholders reject our exchange offer and not tender their shares of Vulcan common stock to us. In connection with the proposed business combination with Vulcan, we have only conducted a review of Vulcan’s publicly available information and have not had access to Vulcan’s non-public information. Therefore, we may be subject to unknown liabilities of Vulcan which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations if the proposed business combination with Vulcan is completed. While we are in the same industry with Vulcan, to date, we have only conducted a due diligence review of Vulcan’s publicly available information in connection with the proposed business combination with Vulcan. The consummation of the offer may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under agreements of Vulcan that are not publicly available. As a result, after the consummation of the offer, we may be subject to unknown liabilities of Vulcan, which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties exist in integrating our business and operations with that of Vulcan, and there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the business combination will be realized. We intend, to the extent possible, to integrate Vulcan’s operations with our operations. Although we believe that the integration of our operations with that of Vulcan (and the resulting benefits and synergies) will be achievable, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties integrating Vulcan’s operations with our operations, which could result in our achieving less than the anticipated benefits and synergies of the combination and, therefore, less than the expected cost savings. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the timing for realizing these benefits and synergies will be consistent with the timing we anticipate. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other things: • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures between Vulcan and us; • the complexities of integrating the business and operations of Vulcan with those of our company; • the retention of existing customers and attraction of new customers; • the retention of key employees, and attraction of new employees, if necessary; • the consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures; • the minimization of the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and 34 Table of Contents • the possibility of tax costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations of the combined company. Also, our proposal is not dependent upon the retention or cooperation of Vulcan’s senior management. There can be no assurance that there will not be some lack of cooperation on the part of Vulcan’s senior executive management and/or its other employees which could adversely affect the integration process. The payment of cash dividends by the combined company in the future may be subject to certain limitations. The failure of the combined company to maintain or pay dividends may adversely affect its share price. We intend for the combined company to pay regular dividends to shareholders at our current rate of $1.60 per share annually (equivalent to $0.80 per Vulcan share annually, based on the 0.50 exchange ratio). The ability of the combined company to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, its financial condition, compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness (including Vulcan’s indebtedness) and applicable law. In addition, if Vulcan is required to offer to repurchase outstanding senior unsecured notes, its financial condition may be adversely affected and as a result the combined company could be required to reduce or eliminate its dividend. Please see “Following consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan, the credit rating of Vulcan’s indebtedness could be downgraded, which in certain circumstances could give rise to an obligation to redeem Vulcan’s existing indebtedness.” If the combined company reduces or eliminates its dividend, the combined company’s share price may be adversely affected. We must obtain governmental and regulatory consents to consummate the proposed business combination with Vulcan, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or delay the offer, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with Vulcan. The proposed business combination with Vulcan is conditioned on the receipt of all necessary or advisable (at our sole discretion) governmental and regulatory authorizations, consents, orders and approvals or the termination of any necessary or advisable (at our sole discretion) waiting periods, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the federal antitrust laws. If we do not receive these approvals, or do not receive them on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in our proposed offer, then we will not be obligated to accept shares of Vulcan common stock for exchange in the offer. The governmental agencies from which we are seeking these approvals, or which may otherwise review the transaction, including, in particular, the FTC and the United States Department of Justice, have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the proposed transaction, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. These requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the combination contemplated by the proposed combination. Further, no assurance can be given that the required consents and approvals will be obtained or that the required conditions to the offer will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the conditions to the consummation of the offer are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and 35 Table of Contents timing of the approvals. If we agree to any material requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the offer, these requirements, limitations, additional costs or restrictions could adversely affect our ability to integrate the operations of the two companies or reduce the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination. This could result in a failure to complete the proposed business combination with Vulcan or have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. Although there is some overlap in some regions served by Vulcan and us, we believe that such overlap is limited and that there would be numerous parties interested in purchasing any assets required to be divested. We expect that any asset divestitures that may be required in connection with the proposed business combination with Vulcan would not present significant hurdles to completion of a transaction. The market for our common stock may be adversely affected by the issuance of shares pursuant to the proposed business combination with Vulcan. In connection with the completion of the proposed business combination with Vulcan, we estimate we will issue approximately 64,905,000 shares of our common stock. The increase in the number of shares of our common stock may lead to sales of such stock or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our common stock. If all shares of Vulcan common stock are exchanged pursuant to the offer, former Vulcan shareholders would own, in the aggregate, approximately 58% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, based on the proposed exchange ratio. Following consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan, the credit rating of Vulcan’s indebtedness could be downgraded, which in certain circumstances could give rise to an obligation to redeem Vulcan’s existing indebtedness. Vulcan had approximately $2.8 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding senior unsecured notes as of September 30, 2011. We do not presently intend to redeem or refinance any of Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes in connection with the proposed business combination with Vulcan. Completion of the proposed business combination with Vulcan may constitute a “change of control” under the terms of each series of Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes. If completion of the offer constitutes a change of control and if there is a downgrade of the credit rating of any series of Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes by both S&P and Moody’s to a rating that, in the case of S&P, is below BBB- and, in the case of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., is below Baa3 (in each case, regardless of the credit rating prior to the downgrade), during the period commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by Vulcan of any change of control (or pending change of control) continuing until 60 days following consummation of such change of control (which period will be extended following consummation of a change of control for up to an additional 60 days for so long as either of these rating agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change), this would constitute a “change of control repurchase event” under the terms of the applicable notes. In the event of a change of control repurchase event with respect to any series of Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes, Vulcan would be required to offer to repurchase each holder’s notes of such series at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 36 Table of Contents We may elect to implement alternative structures to effect the proposed business combination with Vulcan taking into account, among other things, any implications of the proposed transaction under Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes. Pursuant to the terms of the form merger agreement delivered to Vulcan concurrently with Martin Marietta’s business combination proposal, we would have the right to require that, prior to the closing of the transaction, Vulcan cooperate with us (and, as applicable, amend the merger agreement) to implement the transactions through an alternative transaction structure. Under the terms of the form merger agreement, we can request that Vulcan implement the transaction either (i) through a new holding company we form or (ii) as may otherwise be requested by us (so long as Vulcan’s shareholders receive the substantially equivalent economic benefit compared to the economic benefit Vulcan’s shareholders would have received upon consummation of the transactions under the structure contemplated by the form merger agreement). We are not currently considering any alternative structures other than a transaction through a newly formed holding company. This holding company structure would not constitute a change of control of Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes. However, it is possible that a holding company structure may have other implications with respect to Vulcan, us, and/or the combined company, including in certain circumstances potentially requiring an offer to repurchase certain of the Company’s existing debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $550 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, under the terms of which a holding company or other alternative transaction structure may constitute a “change of control.” If completion of the offer constitutes a change of control and if there is a downgrade of the credit rating of any series of the Company’s senior unsecured notes by S&P and Moody’s (or, in the case of the 6.60% senior notes due 2018, by at least two of Fitch Inc., S&P and Moody’s) to a rating below “investment grade” (regardless of whether the rating prior to such downgrade was investment grade or below investment grade) prior to 60 days following consummation of the change of control (which period may be extended for so long as the rating of the notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade), and, in the case of the 6.25% senior notes due 2037, if either S&P or Moody’s publicly announces or informs the trustee in writing that such downgrade was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance relating to the change of control, we would be required to offer to repurchase each holder’s notes of such series at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Although no assurance can be given as to the terms or availability of refinancing capital, and no new financing commitments have been entered into as of the date of this annual report, we currently expect that any repurchase or refinancing of the Company’s senior unsecured notes, if required, could be funded through a combination of cash on hand and borrowings under new and/or existing financing arrangements. Except as described above, we do not expect that the consummation of the transactions through a newly formed holding company structure will result in any material adverse consequences relative to the transaction structure described above. If following the completion of the proposed business combination with Vulcan, Vulcan is obligated to offer to repurchase Vulcan’s outstanding senior unsecured notes, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to repurchase or refinance Vulcan’s outstanding senior unsecured notes in these circumstances. Failure to repurchase the notes as required would result in an event of default under the terms of the notes, which could put Vulcan in default under agreements governing its other indebtedness, including the acceleration of the payment of any borrowings thereunder, and may have an adverse effect on the value of our stock and the ability of the combined company to maintain the dividend we expect it to pay. Since August 2010, the credit rating of Vulcan’s senior unsecured notes 37 Table of Contents has been downgraded three times by Moody’s and two times by S&P. Prior to our December 12, 2011 announcement of the proposed business combination with Vulcan, both Moody’s and S&P had a “negative” credit outlook for Vulcan. Since the announcement of our proposal, Moody’s has placed Vulcan’s rating “under review, direction uncertain” and S&P has placed Vulcan on “CreditWatch Positive.” Our offer is not conditioned on our having adequate funding to repurchase notes of Vulcan or our notes in the event such repurchase obligations are triggered by the consummation of the offer or any alternative transaction structure. On December 15, 2011, Vulcan entered into a new five-year credit agreement providing for a $600 million asset based lending credit facility with SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent, and the lenders and other parties thereto. Consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan may result in a default under Vulcan’s new $600 million Credit Agreement unless the requisite lenders thereunder consent to such transaction. In connection with the consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan, we expect to replace Vulcan’s $600 million Credit Agreement, as well as our existing $600 million credit agreement dated March 31, 2011 and our existing $100 million accounts receivable facility dated April 21, 2009, and refinance any amounts outstanding under such credit facilities. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $385 million was outstanding under our credit facilities. No assurance can be given as to the terms or availability of refinancing capital. The combination of Vulcan’s business with our business may result in one or more ratings organizations taking actions which may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition and operating results, as well as the market price of our common shares. Ratings with respect to financial strength are important factors in maintaining customer confidence in our company and our ability to market our products and compete with other construction materials companies. Rating organizations regularly analyze the financial performance and condition of companies and will likely reevaluate our ratings following the consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan. Although S&P or Moody’s may not take any formal action with respect to modifying our ratings or Vulcan’s ratings following the announcement of the proposed transaction, following the closing of the transaction, any ratings downgrades, or the potential for ratings downgrades, could adversely affect our ability to market and distribute products and services and successfully compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company and the market value of shares of our common stock after the combination of our business with that of Vulcan. Additionally, if a ratings downgrade were to occur in connection with the proposed transaction, or we fail to maintain an investment grade rating, we could experience higher borrowing costs in the future and more restrictive covenants which would reduce profitability and diminish operational flexibility. The proposed business combination with Vulcan will trigger certain provisions contained in our employee benefit plans or agreements that will require us to make change of control payments or permit a counter-party to an agreement with us to terminate that agreement. In addition, the proposed business combination with Vulcan could trigger certain provisions contained in Vulcan’s employee benefit plans or agreements that could require Vulcan to make change in control payments or permit a counter-party to an agreement with Vulcan to terminate that agreement. 38 Table of Contents Certain of our employee benefit plans and agreements have change of control provisions that will be triggered with respect to our executive officers in connection with the proposed business combination with Vulcan. Following consummation of the second-step merger with Vulcan following the offer, any vesting conditions applicable to any restricted stock units and any incentive stock plan units payable in shares of our common stock granted pursuant to our stock plans will lapse, and any unvested options to acquire our common stock will become vested. This will impact awards previously granted to our executive officers. Our non-employee directors do not hold any unvested equity awards. We have entered into Employment Protection Agreements with each of the executive officers, pursuant to which each executive officer would receive certain severance payments and an enhanced benefit under the Martin Marietta Supplemental Benefit Plan (“SERP”) upon certain terminations of employment following a “change of control” (as defined in the agreements and the SERP). Pursuant to the agreements, as originally executed, the executive would be entitled to receive the payments and benefits described below if, within the two-year period following a change of control, the executive was terminated other than for “cause” (as defined in the agreements) or “disability” (as defined in the agreements), or the executive terminated his or her employment with “good reason” (as defined in the agreements) or if the executive terminated his or her employment for any reason during the 30-day period following the second anniversary of a change of control. However, on December 15, 2011, we entered into a letter agreement with each such executive pursuant to which the executive agreed to waive his or her right to receive any compensation or benefits to which he or she would be entitled under the agreements, and any enhanced change of control benefits under the SERP, if the executive officer terminates his or her employment without “good reason” during the 30-day period following the second anniversary of the consummation of the proposed business combination with Vulcan (including as such proposed transaction may be modified). Except with respect to the waiver of such rights, the executive officers remain entitled to their rights under the Employment Protection Agreements and the SERP in circumstances involving a change of control. If a qualifying termination occurs within two years following a change of control, we are obligated to pay the executive, in a lump sum, an amount equal to three times the sum of the executive’s base salary, annual bonus, and perquisites. The executive will also receive a prorated portion of his or her target annual bonus (as defined in the agreements). In addition, for three years following termination of employment, we must provide the executive with welfare benefits that are generally as favorable as those the executive enjoyed prior to the change of control. We must also pay to the executive a lump sum equal to the sum of (i) the matching contributions that we would have made to the Martin Marietta Performance Sharing Plan on behalf of the executive had the executive remained an employee for three years following termination of employment assuming the executive contributed the maximum amount of elective deferrals permissible and (ii) the additional amount the executive would have received as a benefit under the Martin Marietta Pension Plan for Salaried Employees (the “Retirement Plan”) had the executive remained an employee for three years following termination of employment. We must also provide the executive with the same retiree medical benefits that were in effect for retirees immediately prior to the change of control and the executive shall be treated as if he or she had attained age 55 prior to termination of employment. Furthermore, the agreements provide for “gross up” payments to compensate the executives for any golden parachute excise taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code if the total payments or distributions to be made to the executive exceed the maximum dollar amount that would be payable to the executive without any excise tax by more than $50,000. Each executive officer also participates in the SERP which provides that upon a termination of the executive’s employment that qualifies for severance benefits 39 Table of Contents under the executive’s Employment Protection Agreement, for purposes of determining the SERP benefit, the benefit that would have been paid under the Retirement Plan (but for the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code) shall be determined by taking into account (i) the amount of the executive’s lump sum payment under such executive’s Employment Protection Agreement, and (ii) three additional years of credited service. Such additional years of credited service shall be taken into account for vesting purposes under the SERP. In addition, there shall be no reduction for benefit commencement prior to age 65 and as early as age 55 on the net benefit (after reduction for the payment under the Retirement Plan) payable under the SERP. The lump sum payment under the Employment Protection Agreement shall be taken into account by dividing the amount of the lump sum payment by three and by treating the participant as having additional pensionable earnings, for the purpose of determining the participant’s final-average pensionable earnings, equal to such amount for a number of three additional calendar years. Moreover, such additional calendar years shall extend the number of calendar years taken into account in determining final-average pensionable earnings. The executive shall receive a cash lump sum payment as of his or her earliest retirement date (age 55 or current age if older) based on the mortality table determined as of the executive’s date of termination of employment and based on an interest rate of 0.0%. Certain of Vulcan’s employee benefit plans or agreements contain change in control clauses providing for compensation to be granted to certain members of Vulcan senior management either upon a change in control, or if following a change in control, Vulcan terminates the employment relationship between Vulcan and these employees, or if these employees terminate the employment relationship for good reason (as defined in the applicable plan or agreement). If successful, the proposed business combination with Vulcan could constitute a change in control of Vulcan, thereby giving rise to potential change in control payments. Because we have not had the opportunity to review Vulcan’s non-public information in connection with the offer, there may be other agreements that require payments or permit a counter-party to terminate an agreement because the proposed business combination with Vulcan would cause a default or violate an anti-assignment, change in control or similar clause. If this happens, we may have to seek to replace that agreement with a new agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to replace a terminated agreement on comparable terms or at all. Depending on the importance of a terminated agreement to Vulcan’s business, failure to replace that agreement on similar terms or at all may increase the costs to us of operating Vulcan’s business or prevent us from operating part or all of Vulcan’s business. The impact of the proposed business combination with Vulcan is not reflected in our financial statements and could affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our financial statements, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations and our 2012 outlook included in the 2011 Annual Report assume the Company on a stand-alone basis and do not give effect to the potential impact of the proposed business combination with Vulcan. Our future performance could be affected by the proposed business combination with Vulcan, including as a result of the business development costs that may be incurred in connection therewith (regardless of whether we are successful in completing the proposed transaction). If the proposed business combination with Vulcan is completed, our future financial statements are expected to be significantly different from the financial statements included in the 2011 Annual Report. 40 Table of Contents * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the Company and may be material to the Company. The Company has listed all known material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the Company and its operations. The forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and 21E. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management’s current expectations, and the Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the Company’s SEC filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading “Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements” under Item 1A of this Form 10-K, the discussion of “Competition” under Item 1 on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2011 Annual Report, and “Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2011 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2011 Annual Report. The Company also encourages investors to review its disclosures with respect to its proposed business combination with Vulcan, including the risks and other factors described under the headings “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements” in the prospectus/offer to exchange included in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with the SEC on December 12, 2011 (as may be amended from time to time). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the staff of the SEC one hundred and eighty (180) days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 