Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements The following discussion, as well as other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regarding our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical information provided or incorporated by reference herein, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “estimate,” “intend,” “feels,” “will,” “projects” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially due to, among other things, health care reform and other increased government participation in and regulation of health benefits and managed care operations, including the ultimate impact of the ACA, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows through, among other things, reduced revenues, new taxes, expanded liability, and increased costs (including medical, administrative, technology or other costs), or require changes to the ways in which we do business; rising health care costs; continued slow economic growth or a further decline in the economy; negative prior period claims reserve developments; trends in medical care ratios; membership declines; unexpected utilization patterns or 24 Table of Contents unexpectedly severe or widespread illnesses; rate cuts and other risks and uncertainties affecting our Medicare or Medicaid businesses; litigation costs; regulatory issues with federal and state agencies including, but not limited to, DHCS, CMS, the Office of Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and state departments of insurance; operational issues; failure to effectively oversee our third party vendors; noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information; any liabilities of the Northeast business that were incurred prior to the closing of its sale as well as those liabilities incurred through the winding-up and running-out period of the Northeast business; our ability to complete proposed dispositions on a timely basis or at all; investment portfolio impairment charges; volatility in the financial markets; and general business and market conditions. Additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the factors set forth below and the risks discussed in our other filings from time to time with the SEC. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many of the factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. These factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of operations or results by us or our representatives, including any forward-looking discussion, as well as information contained in press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors or other communications by us. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis, judgment, belief or expectation only as of the date thereof and are subject to changes in circumstances and a number of risks and uncertainties. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements. Federal health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. During the first quarter of 2010, the President signed the ACA into law, which is causing and will continue to cause significant changes to the U.S. health care system and alter the dynamics of the health care insurance industry. The provisions of the new legislation, among other things: • impose significant new taxes and fees on health insurers that may not be deductible for income tax purposes, including a health insurer fee on fully insured premiums and an excise tax on high premium insurance policies, • stipulate a minimum medical loss ratio (as adopted by the Department of Health and Human Services), • limit Medicare Advantage payment rates, • increase mandated benefits, • eliminate medical underwriting for medical insurance coverage decisions, which is referred to as “guaranteed issue,” • increase restrictions on rescinding coverage, or “rescissions,” • prohibit some annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to members, • limit the ability of health plans to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk, • limit the amount of compensation paid to health insurance executives that is tax deductible, • expand regulations that govern premium rate increase requests, • require that individuals obtain coverage and 25 Table of Contents • require the creation of government controlled “exchanges” where individuals and small business groups may purchase health coverage. For a further discussion regarding the ACA and related legislation, see “Item 1—Government Regulation—Federal Legislation and Regulations”. Various aspects of the health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments and the cost of operating our business. Among other things, the legislation will require premium rate review in certain market segments, and require premium rebates in the event minimum medical loss ratios are not met. We do not believe that we will be required to pay a material amount in rebates with respect to our 2011 business, however, we cannot be certain that we will not be required to pay material amounts in rebates in the future. In addition, the legislation will lower the rates of Medicare payments we receive, may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain members, and will increase the amount of certain taxes and fees we pay, which is expected to increase our effective tax rate in future periods. The new legislation will also impose a sales tax on medical device manufacturers and increase the amount of fees pharmaceutical manufacturers pay (both of which in turn could increase our medical costs). We could also face additional competition as competitors seize on opportunities to expand their business as a result of the new legislation, though there remains considerable uncertainty about the impact of these changes on the health insurance market as a whole and what actions our competitors could take. See “—The markets in which we do business are highly competitive. If we do not design and price our product offerings competitively, our membership and profitability could decline.” Because of the magnitude, scope and complexity of the new legislation, we also need to dedicate substantial resources and incur material expenses to implement the new legislation, including implementing the current and future regulations that will provide guidance and clarification on important parts of the legislation. Any delay or failure by us to execute our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to health care reform or otherwise appropriately react to the legislation, implementing regulations and actions of our competitors could result in operational disruptions, disputes with our providers or members, regulatory issues, damage to our existing or potential member relationships or other adverse consequences. There are numerous steps required to implement this legislation, with clarifying regulations and other guidance expected over several years. Additional guidance on certain provisions of the federal reform legislation has been issued. However, we are still awaiting further final guidance on a number of key provisions, including regarding essential health benefits, the calculation of the health insurer fee, and federal criteria for participation in state-based exchanges. There remains considerable uncertainty around the ultimate requirements of the legislation, as the final regulations are sometimes unclear or incomplete, and are subject to further change. The federal government has also issued additional forms of “guidance” that may not be consistent with the final regulations. As a result, many of the impacts of health care reform will not be known for certain until the ultimate requirements of the legislation have been definitively determined. Adding to the uncertainty, there also have been Congressional and legal challenges to federal health care reform that, if ultimately successful, could result in changes to the existing legislation or the repeal of ACA in its entirety. Since its passage, a number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the ACA’s provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. These challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the U.S. Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the ACA. In 2011, the President signed legislation to eliminate $2.2 billion of the $6 billion in start-up funding that the ACA provided to support the launch of health insurance cooperatives, and Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to implement the ACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the ACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. If the individual mandate is removed from the ACA, but provisions relating to “guaranteed issue” are implemented, people with greater needs for health care services could make up a greater portion of our membership, which would have an adverse impact on our medical loss ratios, profitability and earnings. These effects could be exacerbated if we are unable to obtain, or are delayed in obtaining, regulatory approval of adequate premium rates for the risk we assume. 26 Table of Contents Due to the unsettled nature of these reforms and the numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict how future regulations and laws, including state laws, implementing the health care reform legislation will impact our business. Depending in part on the ultimate requirements of the legislation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level which could have an adverse impact on us. In addition to the federal health care reform legislation, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. Many of the states in which we operate are already implementing parts of the federal health care reform and many states have added new requirements that are more exacting than the federal health care reform requirements. Also, many states may continue to consider legislation to extend coverage to the uninsured through Medicaid expansions, mandate minimum medical loss ratios, implement rate reforms and enact benefit mandates that go beyond essential benefits. In addition, some states have passed legislation or are considering proposals to establish an insurance exchange within the state to comply with provisions of the health care reform legislation that become effective in 2014. For example, California passed legislation in 2010 establishing a state-based insurance exchange and authorizing an oversight board to negotiate the price of plans sold on the insurance exchange. These kinds of state regulations and legislations could increase the pressure on us to contain our premium prices and thereby could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. This also could increase the competition we face from companies that have lower health care or administrative costs than we do and therefore can price their premiums at lower levels than we can. See “—We face competitive pressure to contain premium prices.” California is the first state to adopt such a structure for a state-based insurance exchange in response to the ACA. If other states in which we operate adopt a similar format for their exchanges, that could further increase the competition that we face and the pressure on us to contain our premiums. At least some states and possibly the federal government may condition health carrier participation in an exchange on a number of factors, which could mean that some carriers would be excluded from participation. Even in cases where state action is limited to implementing federal reforms, new or amended state laws will be required in many cases. States also may disagree in their interpretations of the federal statute and regulations, and state “guidance” that is issued could be unclear or untimely. The interaction of new federal regulations and the implementation efforts of the various states in which we do business will create substantial uncertainty for us and other health insurance companies about the requirements under which we must operate. State regulators are also considering new requirements that would restrict our ability to implement changes to our premium rates. For example, in California, an initiative is circulating that, if qualified and enacted, would impose significant prior approval requirements for rate changes for individual and small groups. These changes could, among other things, lower the amount of premium increases we receive or extend the amount of time that it takes for us to obtain regulatory approval to implement increases in our premium rates, and we have begun to experience greater scrutiny by regulators of proposed increases to our premium rates. Health insurance reform proposals at the state level, or other initiatives undertaken by state regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict and control health care costs. A substantial majority of the revenue we receive is used to pay the costs of health care services and supplies delivered to our members. Many of these costs, including costs associated with physician and hospital care, new medical technology and prescription drugs, for example, are rising. The total amount of health care costs we incur is affected by the number and type of individual services we provide and the cost of each service. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict health care costs and to manage future health care utilization and costs through underwriting criteria, utilization management, product design and negotiation of favorable professional and hospital contracts. Periodic renegotiations of hospital and other provider contracts, coupled with continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups, may 27 Table of Contents result in increased health care costs or limit our ability to negotiate favorable rates. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement have also caused, and are expected to continue to cause, the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Additionally, there is always the possibility that adverse risk selection could occur when members who utilize higher levels of health care services compared with the insured population as a whole choose to remain with our health plans rather than risk moving to another plan. This could cause our health care costs to be higher than anticipated and therefore cause our financial results to fall short of expectations. Changes in utilization rates; demographic characteristics; the regulatory environment, including, for example, the implementation of the ACA or other state or federal laws and their impact on our health care costs and our ability to change our premium rates; health care practices; inflation; new technologies; clusters of high-cost cases; continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups and numerous other factors may adversely affect our ability to predict and control health care costs and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional detail on the impact on health care costs resulting from federal health care reform and potential additional changes in federal and state legislation and regulations, see “—Federal health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations,” “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level which could have an adverse impact on us” and “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” A significant category of our health care costs is the cost of hospital-based products and services. Factors underlying the increase in hospital costs include, but are not limited to, the underfunding of public programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare and the constant pressure that places on rates from commercial health plans, growing rates of uninsured individuals, new technology, state initiated mandates, alleged abuse of hospital chargemasters, an aging population, changes in the economic environment and, under certain circumstances, relatively low levels of hospital competition caused by market concentration. Another significant category of our health care costs is costs of pharmaceutical products and services. Factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of drugs, utilization of new and existing drugs, changes in discounts and the impact of health care reform on pharmaceutical manufacturers through such requirements as increased fees. In addition, a large scale public health epidemic and/or terrorist activity could affect our ability to control health care costs. See “—Large-scale public health epidemics and/or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” As a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for our health plan products, our annual pre-tax income for 2011 would have been reduced by approximately $89 million. The inability to accurately forecast and manage our health care costs in all circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. In addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, price has been and will continue to be a significant basis of competition. Any future increase in premiums could result in the loss of members, particularly in light of continued economic pressures. Our premiums are set in advance of the actual delivery of services, and, in certain circumstances, before contracting with providers. While we attempt to take into account our estimate of expected health care costs over the premium period in setting the premiums we charge or bid, factors such as competition, new or changed regulations and other circumstances may limit our ability to fully base premiums on estimated costs. In addition, the ACA imposes an annual fee on health insurers for each calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2014 28 Table of Contents and we may not be able to cover these costs by increasing our premium rates. Certain non-profits will not be subject to this fee and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over other health insurers, including us, that will subject to this fee. In addition, many factors may, and often do, cause actual health care costs to exceed those costs estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include increased utilization of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, unanticipated seasonality, insured population characteristics, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including those included in the ACA or other state or federal laws. If we are unable to accurately estimate costs and set our premiums accordingly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our ability to increase our premiums may be restricted by law. For example, the ACA requires the establishment of a process for review of “unreasonable” premium rate increases. In addition, the federal government and some states where we do business have required prior regulatory approval of premium rate increases and/or have subjected such increases to heightened scrutiny, such as third-party review. For example, the California Department of Insurance requires a third-party actuarial review of health insurance carriers’ proposed premium rate increases to confirm compliance with applicable law, resulting in a delay in carriers’ ability to implement rate increases. On May 19, 2011, HHS issued a final rule providing that HHS will perform rate reviews for states that are determined by HHS not to have an “effective review process” in place for proposed premium rate increases. Arizona is one of the states determined by HHS not to have “effective review processes” currently in place. Further, in California, proponents of rate review have begun to circulate an initiative measure for signature that would, if qualified for the ballot and enacted, impose significant additional requirements on health plans relating to premium increases. These requirements and proposed changes have in the past and could in the future, among other things, lower the amount of premium increases we receive or extend the amount of time that it takes for us to obtain regulatory approval to implement increases in our premium rates. In 2011 certain of our competitors were asked by the Commissioner of the California Department of Insurance to voluntarily delay implementation of scheduled premium increases to permit additional review by the California Department of Insurance, which review led the carriers to reduce proposed rate increases. We have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, greater scrutiny by regulators of proposed increases to our premium rates. For additional detail on the impact of federal health care reform and potential additional changes in federal and state legislation and regulations on our ability to maintain or increase premium levels, see “—Federal health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations” and “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level which could have an adverse impact on us”. Our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by significant disparities between the premium increases of our health plans and those of our major competitors or by limitations on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels. In 2011, we saw slight decreases in our total commercial membership primarily resulting from the shrinking commercial population due to continued high unemployment and strained economic conditions which have caused purchasers and individuals to discontinue coverage or seek lower cost options. Our tailored network plans provide lower cost options to our members and employer groups, and the continued membership growth in our tailored network products and the continued development of innovative provider relationships are an important part of our business strategy. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for health care reform and future profitable growth, that the products we design in collaboration with certain providers will be successful or developed within the time periods expected, or that the products that we offer will be preferable to similar products of our competitors. Failure to successfully implement this strategy may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The ACA and other federal and state legislation and regulations constrain the medical loss ratios maintained by managed health care companies such as us. The ACA requires premium rebates to the extent that minimum medical loss ratios are not met. We do not believe that we will be required to pay a material amount in rebates with respect to our 2011 business, however, we cannot be certain that we will not be required to pay material 29 Table of Contents amounts in rebates in the future. In the various states in which we do business, premium prices are also constrained by state laws and regulations which restrict the spread between premiums and benefits, such as laws and regulations that require a minimum loss ratio of a certain percentage. These laws and regulations not only restrict our ability to raise our premiums but also create additional competitive pressure from some of our competitors who may have lower health care costs than we have and therefore price their premiums at relatively low levels in relation to our cost of care. These laws and regulations also have generated, and could continue to generate, substantial media attention and strong public opinion. This may create a more conservative regulatory environment, thereby either delaying any rate increases that we propose or further restraining our ability to price at levels that can adequately cover our cost and margin goals. See “—Federal health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations” and “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level which could have an adverse impact on us”. Our business is regionally concentrated in the states of California, Arizona and Oregon. Our business operations are primarily concentrated in the states of California, Arizona and Oregon, and all of our Medicaid operations are in the state of California. Due to this concentration in a small number of states, in particular, California, we are exposed to the risk of a deterioration in our financial results if our health plans in these states, in particular, California, experience significant losses. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by economic conditions in these states. If the challenging economic conditions in the state of California or in the other states in which we operate do not materially improve or deteriorate further, we may experience reductions in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if reimbursement payments from a state are significantly delayed, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For example, due to budget issues, the state of California delayed certain of its 2011 monthly Medicaid payments to us. Although the state ultimately made these payments, the delays impacted our operating cash flow from quarter to quarter in 2011. The irregular timing of these payments could continue into future periods and, depending on the timing of such payments, impact cash flow in future periods. Our inability to estimate and maintain appropriate levels of reserves for claims may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reserves for claims are estimates of incurred costs based on various assumptions. The accuracy of these estimates may be affected by external forces such as changes in the rate of inflation, the regulatory environment, the judicious administration of claims, medical costs and other factors. Included in the reserves for claims are estimates for the costs of services that have been incurred but not reported and for claims received but not processed. These estimates are continually monitored and reviewed and, as settlements are made or estimates adjusted, differences are reflected in current operations. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the actual liability could differ significantly from the amounts reserved. If our actual liability is lower than estimated, it could mean that we set premium prices too high, which could result in a loss of membership. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, it could have a negative impact on our profitability per enrolled member and, subsequently, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period. Our businesses are subject to laws and significant rules and regulations, which increases our cost of doing business and could impact our financial performance by restricting our ability to conduct business or adversely affecting our ability to grow our businesses. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal and state laws, rules, and regulations, including, but not limited to, financial requirements, licensing requirements, enrollment requirements and periodic examinations by governmental agencies. Our HMO and insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations relating to cash reserves, minimum net worth, premium rates, approval of policy language and benefits, appeals and grievances with respect to benefit determinations, provider contracting, utilization management, issuance and termination of 30 Table of Contents policies, claims payment practices and a wide variety of other regulations relating to the development and operation of health plans. These laws, rules, and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than stockholders of managed health care companies such as Health Net. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses. The laws, rules, and regulations governing our business and interpretations of those laws, rules, and regulations are subject to frequent change, and there is no guarantee that legislative or regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering these laws, rules, and regulations to interpret them and to impose substantial fines or restrict our ability to do business when they believe violations or failures to meet standards or requirements have occurred. Regulatory agencies, such as the California Department of Managed Health Care, the California Department of Health Care Services, CMS, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services’ Office of Civil Rights and state departments of insurance, have the authority to impose substantial fines and/or penalties against us and restrict our business activities. Certain of these agencies have done so in the past, and may impose substantial fines and/or penalties against us and restrict our business activities in the future if they determine that we have not complied with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Further, such fines, penalties and restrictions may be more severe in circumstances in which regulatory agencies determine that we have repeatedly failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. See “—Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows” for information regarding sanctions imposed by CMS against us. As we have members in various states and are therefore subject to the regulatory oversight of multiple jurisdictions, we have been in the past, and could be in the future, subject to fines and/or penalties imposed by multiple regulatory agencies relating to the same incident. Existing or future laws, rules, and regulations could, among other things, force us to change how we do business and may restrict our revenue and/or enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs, and/or increase our exposure to liability with respect to members, providers or others. See “—Federal health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations,” “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level which could have an adverse impact on us” and “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” Further, individual Health Net associates may violate these laws, rules, and regulations, notwithstanding our internal policies and compliance programs. For example, see “—If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.” As a federal and state government contractor, we are subject to U.S. and state government oversight. The government may investigate our business practices and audit our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Depending on the results of those audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us. Under government procurement regulations and practices, a negative determination resulting from such claims could result in a contractor being fined, debarred and/or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time. In addition, we are subject to state and federal false claims laws that generally prohibit the submission of false claims for reimbursement or payment to government agencies. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Courts have imposed substantial fines and penalties against companies found to have violated these laws. We are also exposed to other risks associated with U.S. and state government contracting, including but not limited to dependence upon Congressional or legislative appropriation and allotment of funds, the impact that delays in government payments could impact our operating cash flow, and the general ability of the U.S. government to terminate contracts with it, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In addition, delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain or maintain, governmental approvals, or moratoria imposed by regulatory authorities, could adversely affect our revenue or membership, increase costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. 31 Table of Contents Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk. Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business, accounting for approximately 28% of our total premium revenue in our Western Region Operations reportable segment in 2011 and an expected 28% in 2012. The ACA includes, among other things, provisions that will significantly reduce the government’s Medicare payment rates. For more information on the risks associated with the ACA, see “—Federal health care reform legislation could have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.” Provisions of the ACA, including the reduction in Medicare payment rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Effective November 20, 2010, CMS imposed intermediate sanctions against us suspending the marketing to, and enrollment of, new members into all of our Medicare Advantage, MAPD and stand-alone PDP plans. On August 1, 2011, CMS lifted the sanctions, and we resumed marketing our Medicare Advantage, MAPD and stand-alone PDP products and enrolling beneficiaries with effective dates on or after September 1, 2011. See “—Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows” for more information about the CMS sanctions. If we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; if we are sanctioned again; if we are not successful in winning contract renewals or new contracts; or if our existing contracts are terminated, our current Medicare business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, negatively impacting our financial performance. There are also specific additional risks associated with our provision of Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits under Title XVIII, Part D of the Social Security Act. These risks include potential uncollectibility of receivables, inadequacy of pricing assumptions, inability to receive and process information and increased pharmaceutical costs, as well as the underlying seasonality of this business, and extended settlement periods for claims submissions. In addition, our failure to comply with Part D program requirements can result in financial and/or operational sanctions on our Part D products, as well as on our Medicare Advantage products that offer no prescription drug coverage. For example, the CMS sanctions imposed on us in November 2010 were primarily related to our noncompliance with Part D program requirements, and applied to our Medicare Advantage plans that offer no prescription drug coverage, as well as to our Medicare Advantage and PDP-only plans that offer prescription drug coverage. On January 9, 2012, HNL entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Medicare stand-alone PDP business to a subsidiary of CVS Caremark. Following the closing of this transaction, we will continue to provide Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits as part of our Medicare Advantage plan offerings. See “Item 1—Segment Information—Western Region Operations Segment—Medicare Products” and “—Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business” for more information on our agreement to sell our Medicare stand-alone PDP business. In connection with our participation in the Medicare Advantage and Part D programs, we regularly record revenues associated with the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism employed by CMS. This mechanism is designed to appropriately reimburse health plans for the relative health care cost risk of its Medicare enrollees. Under the CMS risk adjustment methodology, all Medicare Advantage plans must collect and submit diagnosis code data from hospitals and physician providers to CMS by specified deadlines. CMS uses this diagnosis information to calculate the risk adjusted premium paid to Medicare Advantage plans throughout the year. For any given year, the final settlement of these risk adjustment payments is generally made in the second or third quarter of the following year. Because the recorded revenue associated with the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism is based on our best estimate at the time, the actual payment we receive from CMS for risk adjustment reimbursement settlements may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize on our financial statements. See “—Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows” for information on our recent CMS audits and potential audits of the provider medical data supporting the risk adjustment payments that we receive for our Medicare members. 32 Table of Contents A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Approximately 49% of our 2011 total revenues relate to federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE and MFLC. Nearly all of the revenues in our Government Contracts segment come from the federal government, either directly or as a sub-contractor for a federal government contract. Our contracts with the government are generally subject to a competitive bid process and government discretion, and if we fail to design and maintain programs attractive to our government customers, if we are not successful in winning new contracts or contract renewals, or if our existing contracts are terminated, our current government health care coverage programs business and our ability to expand this business could be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 1—Segment Information—Western Region Operations Segment—Medicaid and Related Products” for more information regarding certain of our opportunities to expand our business with government customers. Under government-funded health programs, the government payor typically determines premium and reimbursement levels. If the government payor reduces premium or reimbursement levels, such as Medicare Advantage payment rates as provided in the ACA, or increases them by less than our costs increase, and we are unable to make offsetting adjustments through supplemental premiums and changes in benefit plans, we could be adversely affected. The amount of government receivables set forth in our consolidated financial statements represents our best estimate of the government’s liability to us under TRICARE, MFLC and other government contracts, or amounts due us as a sub-contractor. In general, government receivables are estimates and subject to government audit and negotiation. In addition, inherent in government contracts are an uncertainty of and vulnerability to disagreements with the government. Final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize on our financial statements. Contracts under our government programs are generally subject to frequent change, including but not limited to changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the revenue received by us or increase our administrative or health care costs, as applicable, under such programs. Such changes are more likely during re-competition of government contracts. For example, in connection with the pending MFLC re-competition, the government may elect to award a contract that covers only a portion of the current contract scope. Depending on the scope or terms of the contract actually awarded to us, if any, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Accordingly, these and other changes to contracts for our government programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For additional information on our MFLC contract and the pending re-competition of this contract see “Item 1—Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—Other Department of Defense Contracts.” Changes to government health care coverage programs in the future may also affect our willingness to participate in these programs. Our Medicaid operations are solely in the state of California. California continues to experience unprecedented budget deficits. In response to the deficits, the State of California enacted proposed spending cuts for services as part of the 2011-2012 budget, some of which could result in reductions in enrollment in or reimbursement from the Medi-Cal and Healthy Families programs. Prior Medi-Cal provider and health plan rate reimbursement reductions are the subject of pending litigation and certain of the cuts proposed as a part of the 2011-12 budget are also currently subject to litigation and/or review by CMS. If the state of California prevails and the reimbursement cuts are implemented as currently proposed, the payments that we receive in connection with our state health programs business would be reduced. An enrollment freeze or significant reduction in payments received in connection with these or similar programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly as our Medi-Cal membership increases. In addition, California could impose requirements on the Medi-Cal program that make our continued operations not feasible and could be unable to fund programs authorized by federal health care reform. On April 1, 2011, we began delivering administrative services under the T-3 contract for the TRICARE North Region. The T-3 contract has five one-year option periods; however, the Department of Defense exercised 33 Table of Contents option period 2 (without exercising option period 1), due to a delay of approximately one year in the government’s initial award of the T-3 contract. Accordingly, option period 2 commenced on April 1, 2011, and if all remaining option periods are exercised, the T-3 contract would conclude on March 31, 2015. There can be no assurance that the Department of Defense will exercise all of the remaining option periods under the contract. If all of the option periods are not exercised, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. For additional information on our TRICARE operations, see “Item 1—Segment Information—Government Contracts Segment—TRICARE.” In addition, the reimbursement rates we receive from federal and state governments relating to our government health care coverage programs are subject to risk. For example, on October 27, 2011, CMS approved certain elements of California’s 2011-2012 budget proposals to reduce Medi-Cal provider reimbursement rates as authorized by California Assembly Bill 97 (“AB 97”). The elements approved by CMS include a 10 percent reduction in a number of provider reimbursement rates. The California Department of Health Care Services has preliminarily indicated that the Medi-Cal managed care rate reductions could be effective retroactive to July 1, 2011. Recently, the United States District Court for the Central District of California issued a series of injunctions barring the California Department of Health Care Services from implementing the rate reductions as to various classes of providers. If AB 97 is ultimately implemented as proposed, we believe that the approved reductions in provider payments would result in a premium reduction from the Medi-Cal business conducted in our California health plan. In addition, our ability to obtain health care cost recoveries from providers relating to any implemented rate cuts could affect the financial results of our California health plan. However, due to the preliminary injunction in effect and other uncertainty regarding the final implementation of AB 97, we cannot reasonably estimate the range of reductions in premiums and/or related health care cost recoveries that may result in connection with AB 97. Furthermore, on August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was enacted in order to increase the federal government’s debt limit and reduce the federal deficit. The Budget Control Act establishes a twelve-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the “Joint Select Committee”). The Joint Select Committee was tasked with proposing legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021 by December 23, 2011. The Joint Select Committee did not pass such legislation by the proposed deadline. As a result, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions will automatically begin on January 1, 2013 and will be split evenly between domestic and defense spending. Medicare will be subject to these automatic spending reductions, subject to a 2% cap. All parts of the Medicare program, including Medicare Advantage, could be subject to cuts, but it is unclear how they would be applied. If Medicare reimbursement rates from the federal government are cut, it could have an adverse impact on our Medicare business. For additional information on the risks associated with our Medicare program, see “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk.” Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have been and, in some cases, currently are, involved in various federal and state governmental audits, reviews and investigations. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by government agencies, state insurance and health and welfare departments and others pertaining to financial performance, market conduct and regulatory compliance issues. Such audits, reviews and investigations could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate or enroll members in certain programs, or the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions, which could be substantial. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell our products and services. State attorneys general have become increasingly active in investigating the activities of health plans, and we have received in the past, and may continue to receive in the future, subpoenas and other requests for information as part of these investigations. We 34 Table of Contents have entered into consent agreements relating to, and in some instances have agreed to pay fines in connection with, several recent audits and investigations. Many regulatory audits, reviews and investigations in recent years have focused on the timeliness and accuracy of claims payments by managed care companies and health insurers. Our subsidiaries have been the subject of audits, reviews and investigations of this nature. Depending on the circumstances and the specific matters reviewed, regulatory findings could require remediation of any claims payment errors and payment of penalties of material amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time, CMS audits certain Medicare Advantage plans, including ours, to validate the coding practices and the supporting documentation maintained by health care providers to support risk adjustment payments made to plans pursuant to their Medicare Advantage contracts. We utilize claims submissions, medical records and other medical data as provided by health care providers as the basis for payment requests that we submit to CMS under the risk adjustment model for our Medicare Advantage contracts. CMS may conduct risk adjustment data validation (“RADV”) contract level audits for payment years 2011 or later. On February 24, 2012, CMS published its final payment error calculation methodology for such RADV audits. While the methodology is complex, generally, CMS will use enrollee-level samples to estimate an error rate across the contract. In the event of such an audit, CMS may require payment from Health Net based on any error estimate. Any such risk adjustment payment adjustments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The laws and regulations governing the audits for these risk adjustment payments are extremely complex and subject to interpretation. As a result, it is possible that our recorded revenue estimates with respect to risk adjustment payments may change by a material amount. For additional detail on the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism employed by CMS and risks associated with our Medicare business, see “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk.” In January 2010, we were notified by CMS that, due to certain pharmacy claims processing errors, none of our stand-alone PDP plans would receive auto-assignment of LIS-eligible Medicare beneficiaries under CMS’ LIS auto-assignment process, effective February 1, 2010. On September 24, 2010, CMS notified us that they would not reassign any LIS beneficiaries to us for the 2011 plan year. On August 1, 2011, CMS notified us that our stand-alone PDP plans will continue to be excluded from the PDPs into which CMS carries out daily auto-enrollments or annual reassignment of LIS-eligible beneficiaries until at least March 1, 2012 and that this prohibition will remain in place until CMS verifies that we are appropriately administering the LIS benefit to current enrollees. At this time, we do not expect the continued suspension of our auto-enrollment for LIS beneficiaries or CMS’ LIS beneficiary reassignment decision to have a material adverse effect on our Medicare business. In August 2010, CMS conducted a targeted audit of our Medicare Advantage, MAPD and stand-alone PDP plan operations, including the areas of membership accounting, premium billing, Part D formulary administration, Part D appeals, grievances and coverage determinations, and our compliance program. Based on the results of the audit, effective November 2010, CMS imposed sanctions against us suspending the marketing to and enrollment of new members into all of our Medicare Advantage, MAPD and stand-alone PDP products. On August 1, 2011, CMS lifted the sanctions, and we resumed marketing our Medicare Advantage, MAPD and stand-alone PDP products and enrolling beneficiaries with effective dates on or after September 1, 2011. In connection with the lifting of these sanctions, CMS stated that it will closely monitor our Medicare operations and that we will be subject to targeted monitoring and heightened surveillance and oversight. These sanctions did not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity in 2011; however, any future sanctions against our Medicare operations could have a material adverse impact on our Medicare business and could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Any future sanctions imposed by CMS may be more severe as a result of our past performance, particularly in circumstances in which CMS determines that we have repeatedly failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. If CMS were to impose financial penalties and/or additional sanctions on us, or terminate our existing Medicare contracts, this could have a material adverse effect on us. See “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk” for additional information about our Medicare programs and the associated risks. 35 Table of Contents We contract with independent third party vendors and service providers who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. Violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business by such third parties, or governing our dealings with such parties, could subject us to additional audits, reviews and investigations and adverse effects from such audits, reviews and investigations. In addition, from time to time, government agencies investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with regulations applicable to government contractors, including but not limited to regular audits to enforce mandatory pricing arrangements. Government investigations of us, whether relating to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines and/or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future government contracting, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to litigation, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, we incur material expenses in the defense of litigation and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or liquidity could be adversely affected if litigation expenses are greater than we project. We are currently, and may become in the future, subject to a variety of legal actions, including but not limited to employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, fraud and misrepresentation claims, shareholder suits, including suits for securities fraud, intellectual property and real estate related disputes, and claims arising from or in connection with acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions, including but not limited to actions to block or unwind such transactions. In addition, we incur and likely will continue to incur potential liability for claims related to the insurance industry in general and our business in particular, such as claims by members alleging failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, improper rescission, termination or non-renewal of coverage, and insufficient payments for out-of-network services; claims by employer groups for return of premiums; claims by providers, including claims for withheld or otherwise insufficient compensation or reimbursement, claims related to self-funded business and claims related to reinsurance matters; and claims alleging information security incidents and breaches. For example, we currently are party to various putative class action lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in connection with our announcement that certain server drives containing protected health information or personally identifying information of certain individuals are unaccounted for in connection with the migration of our data center to a facility owned and operated by a third party vendor. These actions assert a variety of legal claims, including claims under the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act, and seek damages under that statute as well as other compensatory damages, restitution, injunctive relief and attorneys’ fees. See “Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “—If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected” for additional information. The legal actions to which we are currently and in the future could be subject can also include allegations of fraud, misrepresentation, unfair or improper business practices and violations of state or federal antitrust laws and can include claims for punitive damages and various forms of injunctive relief. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against various managed care organizations, including us. In some of the cases pending against us, substantial non-economic or punitive damages are also being sought. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty, and we are incurring material expenses in the defense of litigation matters, including without limitation, substantial discovery costs. Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of the types of claims we face. There is a risk that we could incur substantial legal fees and expenses, including discovery expenses, in any of the actions we defend in excess of any amounts budgeted for defense. Plaintiffs’ attorneys have increasingly used expansive electronic discovery requests as a litigation tactic. Responding to these requests, the scope of which may exceed the normal capacity of our historical systems for archiving and organizing electronic documents, may require application of 36 Table of Contents significant resources and impose significant costs on us. In certain cases, we could also be subject to awards of substantial legal fees and costs to plaintiffs’ counsel. While we currently have insurance policies that may provide coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation matters, there can be no assurance that coverage will be available for any particular case or liability. Insurers could dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded or settlement amounts. In addition, certain liabilities, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. Insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level that would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. The deductible on our errors and omissions (“E&O”) insurance has reached such a level. Given the amount of the deductible, the only cases which would be covered by our E&O insurance are those involving claims that substantially exceed our average claim values and otherwise qualify for coverage under the terms of the insurance policy. We regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, to determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. We record reserves and accrue costs for certain significant legal proceedings which represent our best estimate of the probable loss, including related future legal costs, for such matters, both known and unknown. However, our recorded amounts might differ materially from the ultimate amount of any such costs. The costs associated with any settlement of or judgment relating to the various legal proceedings to which we are or may be subject from time to time, such as the proceedings described in Note 13, could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in a significant earnings charge or impact on our cash flow in any particular quarter. For example, as a result of the Louisiana Supreme Court’s decision in the AmCareco litigation, we recorded a pretax charge of $181 million in the year ended December 31, 2011. The costs associated with any settlement of or judgment relating to the various legal proceedings to which we are or may be subject from time to time, such as the proceedings described in Note 13, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or liquidity. We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties. We currently contract with independent third party vendors and service providers who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. These third parties provide a material amount of services to us, and include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure and applications solutions providers, medical management providers, claims administration providers, billing and enrollment providers, third party providers of actuarial services, call center providers and specialty service providers. We are continuing to explore further opportunities to outsource certain other business process functions, including in the area of information technology. Our current and any future arrangements with third party vendors and service providers may make our operations vulnerable if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of our information and data. In addition, we may have disagreements with third party vendors and service providers regarding relative responsibilities for any such failures under applicable business associate agreements or other applicable outsourcing agreements. Any contractual remedies and/or indemnification obligations we may have for vendor or service provider failures may not be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses suffered as a result of any vendor’s failure to satisfy their obligations to us or under applicable law. Our current and any future outsourcing arrangements could be adversely impacted by changes in vendor’s or service provider’s operations or financial condition or other matters outside of our control. If we fail to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors and service providers, we could be subject to additional risk. If these vendor and service provider relationships were terminated for any reason, we may not be able to find alternative partners in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms, and may incur significant costs and/or disruption to our operations in connection with any such vendor or service provider transition. As a result, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, we may not fully realize the anticipated economic and other benefits from our outsourcing 37 Table of Contents projects or other relationships we enter into with third party vendors and service providers, as a result of regulatory restrictions on outsourcing, unanticipated delays in transitioning our operations to the third party, vendor or service provider noncompliance with contract terms or violations of laws and/or regulations, or otherwise. This could result in substantial costs or other operational or financial problems that could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business or noncompliance with contract terms by third party vendors and service providers could increase our exposure to liability to our members, providers or other third parties, or sanctions and/or fines from the regulators that oversee our business. In turn, this could increase the costs associated with the operation of our business or have an adverse impact on our business and reputation. In addition, we currently outsource and may in the future outsource key services and functions to third parties, including U.S. companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions, and additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws and U.S. laws applicable to operations in foreign jurisdictions, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. If we are unable to manage our general and administrative expenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The level of our administrative expenses can affect our profitability, and we may not be able to manage our administrative expense in all circumstances. While we attempt to effectively manage such expenses, including through the development of online functionalities and other projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, increases in staff-related and other administrative expenses may occur from time to time. These increases could be caused by any number of things, including difficulties or delays in projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, reliance on outsourced services, acquisitions and divestitures, business or product start-ups or expansions, changes in business or regulatory requirements, including compliance with the ACA, ICD-10 and HIPAA regulations, or other reasons. In addition, any failure to appropriately manage our general and administrative expenses could impact our ability to satisfy minimum medical loss ratio requirements, including those specified in the ACA. During recent years we have dedicated significant resources to implement programs designed to achieve general and administrative cost savings and improve our operational performance. As a part of these programs, we have and will continue to contract with key strategic partners in an effort to lower our cost structure and incremental costs and consolidate business and management operations. In addition, we are continuing to explore further opportunities to outsource certain other business process functions. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies to reduce our general and administrative costs and improve our operation performance will be successful or achieve anticipated savings. In addition, in order to offset some of the reduced revenues from the T-3 contract, we are being required to reduce, reallocate or eliminate certain overhead and other administrative expenses. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in making these cuts and adjustments at a pace that will maintain or increase our profitability. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive. If we do not design and price our product offerings competitively, our membership and profitability could decline. We are in a highly competitive industry. Many of our competitors may have certain characteristics, capabilities or resources, such as greater market share, superior provider and supplier arrangements and existing business relationships, that give them an advantage in competing with us. These competitors include HMOs, PPOs, self-funded employers, insurance companies, hospitals, health care facilities and other health care providers. In addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future. The addition of new competitors in our industry can occur relatively easily and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. There is a risk that our customers may decide to perform for 38 Table of Contents themselves functions or services currently provided by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, our providers and suppliers may decide to market products and services to our customers in competition with us. In addition, the response of our competitors to the ACA and related adjustments to their offerings, if any, could cause meaningful disruption in local health care markets in which we operate. Competitors could modify their product features or benefits, change their pricing relative to others in the market, adjust their mix of business or even exit segments of the market. We may not be able to match our competitors’ ability to support reduced premiums by making changes to their distribution arrangements, decreasing spending on non-medical product features and services, or otherwise adjusting their operating costs and reducing general and administrative expenses. In recent years, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity in our industry and in industries that act as our suppliers, such as the hospital, medical group, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. This activity may create stronger competitors and/or result in higher health care costs. Furthermore, the adoption of the ACA could further increase the likelihood of provider consolidation, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to negotiate competitive rates. In addition, our contracts with government agencies, such as our T-3 North Region and MFLC contracts, are from time to time up for re-bid and the loss of any significant government contract to a competitor, such as the T-3 North Region and MFLC contracts, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” for more information regarding our T-3 North Region and MFLC contracts. In addition, see “Item 1—Segment Information—Western Region Operations Segment—Medicaid and Related Products” for more information regarding certain opportunities to expand our business with government customers that are subject to highly competitive processes. To the extent that there is strong competition or that competition intensifies in any market, our ability to retain or increase customers, our revenue growth, our pricing flexibility, our control over medical cost trends and our marketing expenses may all be adversely affected. The continued membership growth in our tailored network products and the continued development of innovative provider relationships are an important part of our business strategy. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for health care reform and future profitable growth, that the products we design in collaboration with certain providers will be successful or developed within the time periods expected, or that the products that we offer will be preferable to similar products of our competitors. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we do not design and price our products appropriately and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, if we do not provide satisfactory service levels, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or if membership or demand for other services declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a wide range of risks, and our success depends on our ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage our enterprise risk exposures. As a large company operating in a complex and highly-regulated industry, we encounter a variety of risks. The risks we face include, among others, the range of regulatory, competitive, financial, operational, reputational, external and industry risks identified in this Risk Factors discussion. The third party vendors and service providers to which we outsource key functions are also required to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Any violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business, or the terms of our contracts, by third party vendors or service providers 39 Table of Contents could increase our enterprise risk exposure. As we consider further outsourcing of key functions, this risk increases. We continue to devote resources to further develop and integrate our enterprise-wide risk management processes. Failure to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage or mitigate these risks, including risk concentrations across different industries, segments and geographies, can adversely affect our profitability, our ability to retain or grow business or our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals and other providers with which we contract, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers as a means to provide access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments or take other actions, including litigation, which could result in higher health care costs, less desirable products for customers and members, disruption to provider access for current members or to support growth, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market our products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. In the changing health care environment, our business strategy includes creating affordable and tailored customer solutions through, among other things, innovative provider relationships that effectively manage the cost of care. For example, our product portfolios and services include offerings such as PremierCareSM, ExcelCareSM and CommunityCareSM, which are recent collaborations with provider partners in California, Arizona and Oregon, respectively. Through these types of partnerships, we offer tailored network product offerings served by cost-effective physician groups and hospitals. Membership in our tailored network products was approximately 31% of total commercial risk membership as of December 31, 2011, compared with 23% as of December 31, 2010. For additional information on our tailored network products and innovative provider relationships, see “Item 1—Segment Information—Western Region Operations Segment—Managed Health Care Operations.” The continued membership growth in our tailored network products and the continued development of innovative provider relationships are an important part of our business strategy. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for health care reform and future profitable growth, that the products we design in collaboration with certain providers will be successful or developed within the time periods expected, or that the products that we offer will be preferable to similar products of our competitors. Failure to successfully implement this strategy may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We contract with professional providers in California primarily through capitation fee arrangements. Under a capitation fee arrangement, we pay a provider group a fixed amount per member on a regular basis and the provider group accepts the risk of the frequency and cost of member utilization of professional services, and in some cases, institutional services. Provider groups that enter into capitation fee arrangements generally contract with primary care physicians, specialists and other secondary providers to provide services. In addition, we frequently delegate responsibility for certain functions such as claims payment or utilization management to these providers. The inability of provider groups to properly manage costs under capitation arrangements can result in their financial instability and the termination of their relationship with us. A provider group’s financial instability or failure to pay specialists or secondary providers for services rendered could be exacerbated by the current economic conditions, and could lead specialists or secondary providers to demand payment from us, even though we have made our capitated payments to the provider group. Depending on state law, we could be liable for such claims. In California, for instance, although legal precedent to date has held that health plans are normally not liable for unpaid provider claims under these circumstances, there can be no assurance that the law will not change, or that we will not be found liable for unpaid provider claims in the future. There can also be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial 40 Table of Contents solvency or avoid disputes with specialists or secondary providers, the failure of any of which could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. Our dependence on capitated provider groups is substantial in our Western Region Operations. Approximately 61% of our Western Region Operations members were enrolled with capitated provider groups as of December 31, 2011. Our strategy to expand commercial membership through tailored network products also places a greater emphasis on our relationships with certain capitated provider groups, as tailored network products restrict covered members’ access to certain physician groups. If these capitated provider groups cannot provide comprehensive services to our members in tailored network products or encounter financial difficulties, it could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. In addition, the use of tailored network products could create an increased risk of out of network claims issues, which could result in higher medical costs to us. The provider groups that we contract with are also required to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. The inability of a provider group to pass compliance audits or otherwise maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations may cause us to terminate a contract with a provider or assume responsibility for the noncompliant functions, such as claims payment or utilization management. Furthermore, violations of, or noncompliance with, applicable laws and/or regulations or contract terms by providers who perform delegated functions for us could increase our exposure to liability to our members or sanctions and/or fines from the regulators that oversee our business, among other things. If we fail to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of these delegated entities, we could be subject to additional risk. For additional information, see “—We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties.” Some providers that render services to our members and insureds who have coverage for out-of-network services, or who obtain out-of-network emergency services, are not contracted with our plans and insurance companies. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and the plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider; rather, the plan’s obligation is to reimburse the member based upon the terms of the member’s plan. In some states and product lines, the amount of reimbursement is defined by law or regulation, but in other instances it is established by a standard set forth in the plan that is not clearly translated into dollar terms, such as “maximum allowable amount” or “usual, customary and reasonable.” Providers who render out-of-network services may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the plan or balance bill our member. Regulatory authorities in various states may also challenge the manner in which we reimburse members for services performed by non-contracted providers. As a result of litigation or regulatory activity, we may have to pay providers additional amounts or reimburse members for their out-of-pocket payments. The uncertainty about our financial obligations for such services and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of our original payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Physicians and other professional providers, provider groups and hospitals that contract with us have in certain situations commenced litigation and/or arbitration proceedings against us to recover amounts for which they allege we are liable, including amounts related to unpaid claims and amounts they allege to be underpayments due to them under their contracts with us. We are currently a party to matters of this nature and could face additional claims or be subject to litigation and/or arbitration proceedings in the future in connection with similar matters. We believe that provider groups and hospitals have become increasingly sophisticated in their review of claim payments and contractual terms in an effort to maximize their payments from us and have increased their use of outside professionals, including accounting firms and attorneys, in these efforts. These efforts and the litigation and arbitration that result from them could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents If the current unfavorable economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, it could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The economic conditions in the United States continue to be challenging. Continued concerns about high unemployment rates, government debt, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and other capital, the U.S. real estate market, consumer spending and other factors continue to negatively impact expectations for the U.S. economy. These events could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. These market conditions expose us to a number of risks, including risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers. If our customer base experiences cash flow problems or other financial difficulties, it could, in turn, adversely impact membership in our plans. For example, our customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, or may make changes in the mix of products purchased from us. If our customers experience financial issues, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business, and in order to compete effectively in our markets, we also must deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers and that are designed and priced properly and competitively. Prior to the effective date of the ACA’s guaranteed issue requirement, the adverse economic conditions may also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. A significant decline in membership in our plans and the inability of current and/or potential customers to pay their premiums as a result of unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other providers and, as a result, could adversely affect our contracted rates with such parties and increase our medical costs. High unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs and the profitability of our operations. For example, in 2011, our commercial membership decreased by 1.2 percent due, in part, to the difficult economic conditions in the regions where we do business. If economic conditions continue to be difficult and unemployment rates continue to be high, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Largely as a result of the recent economic conditions and new members from California’s SPD program, we saw an increase in our Medi-Cal membership of approximately 108,000 members, or 12.0%, in 2011. However, the state of California is currently experiencing unprecedented budget deficits. An extended economic downturn could continue to adversely affect state and federal budgets, including California’s, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medi-Cal and CHIP. A reduction in California’s Medi-Cal reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. This risk is amplified as our Medi-Cal membership increases. See “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” for additional information regarding proposals to reduce California’s Medi-Cal provider reimbursement rates. In addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause new or higher levels of assessments or taxes for our commercial programs, such as surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims or premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations, and could adversely affect our results of operations. To help balance the budget, California has enacted measures to reduce certain provider reimbursements and introduce copayments for certain services. For additional information regarding the proposed reductions in certain provider reimbursements, see “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” These changes would require federal approval, but if implemented, also could reduce the amounts of payments that we receive from the state in connection with our state health programs business. Moreover, any enrollment freeze or 42 Table of Contents significant delay in reimbursement payment could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. For example, due to budget issues, the state of California delayed several of its 2011 monthly Medicaid payments to us. Although the state ultimately made these payments, the delays impacted our operating cash flow from quarter to quarter in 2011. The irregular timing of these payments could continue into 2012 and impact our cash flow. If we fail to effectively maintain our information management systems, it could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in, among other things, pricing our services, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims, billing our customers on a timely basis and identifying accounts for collection. Our customers and providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verification, claims status and other information. We have many different information systems for our various businesses and these systems require the commitment of significant resources for continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and evolving industry and regulatory standards. We have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity also requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture. We are in the process of reducing the number of systems that we operate. Any difficulty or unexpected delay associated with the transition to or from information systems, including in connection with the decommissioning of a system or the implementation of a new system; any inability or failure to properly maintain information management systems; any failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems, including to renew technology and maintain technology currency or eliminate redundant or obsolete applications; or any inability or failure to successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs, could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, regulatory or other legal or compliance problems, significant increases in administrative expenses and/or other adverse consequences. If for any reason there is a business continuity interruption resulting in loss of access to or availability of data, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers and, in turn, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely impacted. In addition, we obtain significant portions of our systems-related and other services and facilities, including our data center, from independent third parties and are considering expanding our outsourced information technology arrangements. This makes our operations vulnerable to adverse effects if such third parties fail to perform adequately. See “—We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties.” The Department of Health and Human Services has mandated new standards in the electronic transmission of healthcare transactions, including claims, remittance, eligibility, claims status requests and related responses, and privacy and security standards, known as HIPAA 5010. Compliance with the new HIPAA 5010 electronic data transaction standards was required by January 1, 2012, though CMS recently announced that it will not enforce compliance with these standards until March 31, 2012. We have implemented the HIPAA 5010 requirements to be able to exchange 5010 formats with our trading partners. The failure of our trading partners to implement the HIPAA 5010 requirements in a compliant manner could result in additional costs and administrative burden to us and have other adverse effects. Furthermore, CMS has adopted a new coding set for diagnoses, commonly referred to as ICD-10, which significantly expands the number of codes utilized. The new ICD-10 coding set is currently required to be implemented by October 2013. We will be required to incur significant additional expenses to implement and support the new ICD-10 coding set and to support the HIPAA 5010 requirements. In addition, our implementation and support of the requirements of the ACA could require the expenditure of significant resources. If we have not adequately implemented HIPAA 5010 and/or do not adequately implement the requirements of the ACA and ICD-10, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents In addition, we intend to enhance and modernize interactions with our customers, brokers, agents, providers, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology, among other things. Our failure to maintain successful e-business capabilities could result in competitive and cost disadvantages for us as compared to our competitors. We must comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. The Department of Health and Human Services has regulations in place under HIPAA relating to the privacy and security of protected health information (“PHI”). These regulations, as amended, require health plans, clearinghouses and providers to, among other obligations: comply with various requirements and restrictions related to the use, disclosure, storage, and transmission of PHI; adopt rigorous internal policies and procedures to safeguard PHI; and enter into specific written agreements with business associates that receive, use and/or create PHI on our behalf. HIPAA also established significant civil and criminal sanctions for violations. These regulations expose us to liability for, among other things, violations of the regulations by our business associates, including the third party vendors involved in our outsourcing projects. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”), which became fully effective in February 2010, expanded HIPAA’s requirements for security and privacy safeguards, including improved enforcement, additional limitations on use and disclosure of PHI and additional potential penalties for violations, and imposed notice obligations in the event of a breach of unsecured PHI. Although our contracts with our business associates provide for protections of PHI by our business associates, we may have limited control over the actions and practices of our business associates. Compliance with HIPAA and state and federal privacy and security laws and regulations has resulted in and may in the future result in significant costs to us due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by us or our business associates. See also “—If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.” If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable health information or data, including PHI, by our businesses are regulated at the federal and state levels. Despite the privacy and security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party vendors and service providers, are vulnerable to privacy and security incidents including, but not limited to, computer hacking, breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses or other forms of cyber attack, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. For example, in January 2011, we were notified by a third party vendor that certain of our server drives could not be accounted for in connection with the migration of our data center to a facility owned and operated by our third party vendor. We subsequently commenced an investigation of the contents of the unaccounted for server drives, including a detailed forensic review by computer experts, and determined that certain of these unaccounted for drives contain PHI and other personally identifiable information relating to certain individuals. We reported the loss to authorities and notified affected individuals. This matter is under review by various regulatory authorities. In addition, we, and our third party vendor, are currently party to various putative class action lawsuits brought in federal and state courts on behalf of individuals who claim to be affected by this incident. See “Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “—We face risks related to litigation, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, we incur material expenses in the defense of litigation and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or liquidity 44 Table of Contents could be adversely affected if litigation expenses are greater than we project” for additional information about these actions and the associated risks. A party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could, among other things, misappropriate or misuse sensitive or confidential information (including but not limited to PHI and other member information), user information or other proprietary information, cause significant interruptions in our operations and cause all or portions of our website to be unavailable. Internal or external parties may attempt to circumvent our security systems, and we have experienced external attacks on our network such as disruptive internet requests being targeted at us. While we currently expend significant resources to protect against cyber attacks and security breaches and have no evidence to suggest that such attacks have resulted in a breach of our systems, we may need to expend additional significant resources in the future to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our systems. Further, any reductions in the availability of our website could impair our ability to conduct our business and adversely impact our members during the occurrence of any such incident. Because the techniques used to circumvent security systems can be highly sophisticated and change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all possible techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures for all situations. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or data security laws or any security incident or breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us, one of our business associates or another third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations, including but not limited to: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; litigation; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; requirements that we provide notices, credit monitoring services and/or credit restoration services or other relevant services to impacted individuals; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. Additionally, the costs incurred to remediate any data security or privacy incident could be substantial. Under the agreements that govern the Northeast Sale, we have retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the acquired business, which could be substantial. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement for the Northeast Sale, we are required to indemnify the Buyer and its affiliates for all pre-closing liabilities of the acquired business and for a broad range of excluded liabilities, including liabilities arising out of the acquired business incurred through the winding-up and running-out period of the acquired business. The Stock Purchase Agreement does not limit the amount or duration of our obligations to the Buyer and its affiliates with respect to these indemnities. As a result, in the event that the amount of these liabilities was to exceed our expectations, we could be responsible to the Buyer and its affiliates for substantial indemnification obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect our operations. Our indebtedness includes $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2017. In addition, we have a $600 million five-year revolving credit facility that expires in October 2016. As of December 31, 2011, we had $112.5 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. For a description of our Senior Notes and our revolving credit facility, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure.” We may incur additional debt in the future. Our existing indebtedness, and any additional debt we incur in the future through drawings on our revolving credit facility or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: 45 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund stock repurchases, working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We continually evaluate options to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors. In the past, credit markets experienced unusual uncertainty, and liquidity and access to capital markets continue to be constrained. Concern about the stability of the markets generally has led many lenders to reduce and in some cases cease to provide funding to borrowers. See “—If the current unfavorable economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, it could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.” Consequently, in the event we need to access the credit markets, including to refinance our debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. Downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and managed care companies. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings also are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. In addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Rating agencies review our ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each rating agency’s independent opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders and other factors, and are subject to change. Potential downgrades from ratings agencies, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and substantially all of our cash flow is generated by our subsidiaries. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends and maintenance of minimum levels of capital. As a holding company, our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to pay our debt depends, in part, on the amount of cash that we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will depend on their earnings, business and tax considerations, legal and regulatory restrictions and economic conditions. Under the California Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended, certain of our subsidiaries must comply with certain minimum capital or tangible net equity (“TNE”) requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries have agreed to certain undertakings to the Department of Managed Health Care, restricting dividends and loans to affiliates, to the extent that the payment of such would reduce its TNE below 130% of the minimum requirement, or reduce its cash-to-claims ratio below 1:1. In addition, in certain states our regulated subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements, known as RBC. These laws require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance in their state of domicile and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject certain of our regulated subsidiaries to corrective 46 Table of Contents action, including increased reporting and/or state supervision. In addition, in most states, we are required to seek prior approval before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. If our regulated subsidiaries are restricted from paying us dividends or otherwise making cash transfers to us, it could have material adverse effect on our results of operations and free cash flow. For additional information regarding our regulated subsidiaries’ statutory capital requirements, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Statutory Capital Requirements.” Our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. On October 24, 2011, we entered into a $600 million five-year revolving credit facility. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure” for additional information regarding our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility requires us to comply with various covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends, make investments or other restricted payments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets and engage in other activities. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure—Revolving Credit Facility” for details regarding our revolving credit facility. The restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. In addition, any failure by us to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility and, in some circumstances, under the indenture governing our Senior Notes, which, in any case, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate the profitability realized or that we expect to be realized by our existing businesses and operations. From time to time we review, from a strategic standpoint, potential acquisitions and divestitures in light of our core businesses and growth strategies. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contractual terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. For divestitures, success may also be dependent upon efficiently reducing general and administrative or other functions for our remaining operations. In the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer’s inability to fulfill these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. As a seller, we may have significant continuing indemnification, administrative services or other obligations to the buyer. Potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, significant post-closing obligations, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. On January 9, 2012, we announced that our subsidiary, HNL, has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Medicare stand-alone Prescription Drug Plan business to an affiliate of CVS Caremark for approximately $160 million in cash. The sale is subject to closing conditions and regulatory approvals, including approval from CMS, and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. In addition, the Asset Purchase Agreement entered into in connection with the transaction contains certain termination rights, including that either party may terminate the Asset Purchase Agreement if the closing does not occur prior to May 1, 2012. If the Asset Purchase Agreement is terminated for any reason, HNL will be obligated to pay a termination fee of $20 million to the buyer. Among the other risks discussed above, if the transaction does not close or, if it closes and we are unable 47 Table of Contents to reduce our general and administrative or other functions for our remaining operations, this could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The value of our intangible assets may become impaired. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $627 million as of December 31, 2011, representing approximately 17 percent of our total assets and 43 percent of our consolidated stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2011. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding estimated fair value including assumptions and estimates related to future earnings and membership levels based on current and future plans and initiatives, long-term strategies and our annual planning and forecasting processes, as well as the expected weighted average cost of capital used in the discount process. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against income. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially impact our results of operations and stockholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in stockholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. From time to time, we divest businesses that we believe are less of a strategic fit for the company or do not produce an adequate return. Any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of our investment portfolio and our goodwill could be adversely impacted by varying economic and market conditions which could, in turn, have a negative effect on our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Our investment portfolio is comprised primarily of available-for-sale investment securities such as interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities. As of December 31, 2011, our available-for-sale investment securities were approximately $1.6 billion. The value of fixed-income securities is highly sensitive to fluctuations in short- and long-term interest rates, with the value decreasing as such rates increase and increasing as such rates decrease. These securities may also be negatively impacted by illiquidity in the market. We closely monitor the fair values of our investment securities and regularly evaluate them for any other-than-temporary impairments. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the principal amount invested. The current economic environment and uncertainty in the U.S. and global capital markets have negatively impacted the liquidity of investments, such as the debt securities we hold, and a worsening in these markets could have additional negative effects on the liquidity and value of our investment assets. In addition, such uncertainty has increased the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Over time, the economic and capital market environment may further decline or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding the impairment of certain investments. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. There is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our 48 Table of Contents results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding our investment portfolio. In addition, our regulated subsidiaries are also subject to state laws and regulations that govern the types of investments that are allowable and admissible in those subsidiaries’ portfolios. There can be no assurance that our investment assets will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our stockholders’ equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our stock price experiences significant fluctuations or if our market capitalization materially declines, we could be required to take an impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill. If we were required to take such a charge, it would be non-cash and would not affect our liquidity or financial condition, but could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge was taken. At the closing of the Northeast Sale, we entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with the Buyer that contains prohibitions which could negatively impact our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the agreement, we entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with the Buyer, pursuant to which we generally are prohibited from competing with the acquired business in the States of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Rhode Island for a period of five years from the closing, and from engaging in certain other restricted activities. Although we currently do not have any intention to engage in such prohibited activities during the term of the Non-Competition Agreement, circumstances could change and it may become in our best interests to engage in a business that is prohibited by the agreement. If this were to occur, in order to engage in the business we would be required to obtain the Buyer’s consent under the Non-Competition Agreement, which the Buyer could withhold in its discretion. In the event that we are unable to engage in a business due to the terms of the Non-Competition Agreement, this could have an adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend, in part, on independent brokers and sales agents to market our products and services, and recent regulatory investigations have focused on certain brokerage practices, including broker compensation arrangements and bid quoting practices. We market our products and services both through sales people employed by us and through independent sales agents. Independent sales agents typically do not work with us on an exclusive basis and may market health care products and services of our competitors. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent sales agents and we cannot assure you that these agents will continue to market our products at a reasonable cost. Although we have a number of sales employees and agents, if key sales employees or agents or a large subset of these individuals were to leave us, our ability to retain existing customers and members could be impaired. The ACA includes broker and agent commissions as administrative expenses for purposes of calculating the minimum medical loss ratio. As a result, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs of health insurers, and there is pressure to make changes to existing commission structures for brokers and agents. For example, some of our competitors have reduced the commissions payable to brokers and agents for sales in the individual market, and we have implemented similar reductions in the individual market in California. Our relationships with brokers and agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our business practices to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions and changes in the treatment of consulting fees. 49 Table of Contents There have been a number of investigations and enforcement actions against insurance brokers and insurers over the last several years regarding allegedly inappropriate or undisclosed payments made by insurers to brokers for the placement of insurance business. For example, CMS has increased its scrutiny of insurance brokers and insurers regarding allegedly improper sales and marketing practices in connection with the sale of Medicare products. While we are not aware of any unlawful practices by the Company or any of our agents or brokers in connection with the marketing and sales of our products and services, we could be sanctioned as a result of unlawful acts by our agents or brokers. In addition, investigations by state attorneys general, CMS and other regulators, as well as regulatory changes initiated in several states in response to allegedly inappropriate broker conduct and broker payment practices, could result in changes in industry practices or negative publicity that could have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products. We are dependent on our ability to recruit, manage, enable and retain a large workforce. Our products and services and our operations require a large number of employees. As of December 31, 2011, we employed 7,351 individuals on a full-time basis and 120 individuals on a part-time or temporary basis. It is critical that we recruit, manage, enable and retain talent to successfully execute our strategic objectives, which requires aligned policies, a positive work environment and a robust succession and talent development process. Further, particularly in light of the changing healthcare environment, we must focus on building employee capabilities to help ensure that we can meet upcoming challenges and opportunities. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit, manage, enable and retain talent and meet upcoming challenges and opportunities. In addition, the impact of the external or internal environment or other factors on employee morale, enablement and engagement could also significantly impact the success of the Company. Our forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties. Our performance may not be consistent with these forecasts and forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and, as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. The achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this report, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the challenging economic conditions and uncertainties associated with health care reform, among other things, may make it particularly difficult to forecast our future performance. As a result, we cannot assure that our performance will meet any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire mix of publicly available historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting us, our services, and our industry when evaluating our forecasts and other forward-looking statements relating to our operations and financial performance. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. In 2011, the Morgan Stanley Healthcare Payor Index (the “HMO Index”), an index comprised of 11 managed care organizations, including Health Net, recorded an approximate 34.8% increase in its value, while the per share value of our common stock increased by 11.5%. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will vary in a manner consistent with the variation in the HMO Index or the Standard & Poor’s 400 Mid-Cap Index of which our common stock is also a component. The market prices of our common stock and the securities of certain other publicly-traded companies in our industry have shown significant volatility and sensitivity in response to many factors, including health care reform, public communications regarding managed care, legislative or regulatory actions, litigation or 50 Table of Contents threatened litigation, health care cost trends, proposed premium increases, pricing trends, competition, earnings, receivable collections or membership reports of particular industry participants, and market speculation about or actual merger and acquisition activity. Additionally, adverse developments affecting any one of the companies in our sector could cause the price of our common stock to weaken, even if those adverse developments do not otherwise affect us. There can be no assurances regarding the level or stability of our share price at any time or the impact of these or any other factors on our stock price. Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Managed health care companies have received and continue to receive negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. For example, the Company and the managed health care industry have been subject to negative publicity surrounding premium rate increases. In addition, health care and related health care reform and proposals have been and are expected to continue to be the subject of intense media attention and political debate. Such political discourse can often generate publicity that portrays managed care in a negative light. Our marketing efforts may be affected by the amount of negative publicity to which the industry has been subject, as well as by speculation and uncertainty relating to merger and acquisition activity among companies in our industry. Speculation, uncertainty or negative publicity about us, our industry or our lines of business could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products or services, require changes to our products or services, or stimulate additional legislation, regulation, review of industry practices or litigation that could adversely affect us. We have historically experienced significant turnover in senior management. If we are unable to manage the succession of our key executives, it could adversely affect our business. We have experienced a high turnover in our senior management team in the recent past and could experience high turnover in the future. Although we have succession plans in place and have employment arrangements with our key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these key executives will continue to be available to us. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could decrease the value of your shares of our common stock. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. In addition, federal antitrust laws apply to us, and any change in control of our state health plans or health insurance companies also would require the approvals of the applicable regulatory agencies in each state in which we operate. In addition to the Rights Agreement, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of the Company that our stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Large-scale public health epidemics and/or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An outbreak of a pandemic disease and/or future terrorist activities, including bio-terrorism, could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. Depending 51 Table of Contents on the government’s actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and insurance companies, a large-scale public health epidemic or future acts of bio-terrorism could lead to, among other things, increased use of health care services, disruption of information and payment systems, increased health care costs due to increased in-patient and out-patient hospital costs and the cost of any anti-viral medication used to treat affected people. Disasters, including earthquakes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disasters such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornados, power losses, virus outbreaks, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our members and providers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to recover our critical information technology systems in the event of a natural disaster utilizing various alternate sites provided by a national disaster recovery vendor. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 