Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements The following discussion, as well as other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regarding our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical information provided or incorporated by reference herein may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “estimate” and “intend” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Managed health care companies operate in a highly competitive, constantly changing environment that is significantly influenced by, among other things, aggressive marketing and pricing practices of competitors and regulatory oversight. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the factors set forth below and the risks discussed in our other filings from time to time with the SEC. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many of the factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. These factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of operations or results by us or our representatives, including any forward-looking discussion, as well as comments contained in press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors or other communications by us. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis, judgment, belief or expectation only as of the date thereof. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. Our profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict and control health care costs. A substantial majority of the revenue we receive is used to pay the costs of health care services or supplies delivered to our members. The total health care costs we incur are affected by the number and type of individual services provided and the cost of each service. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict health care costs and to control future health care utilization and costs through underwriting criteria, utilization management, product design and negotiation of favorable professional and hospital contracts. Periodic renegotiations of hospital and other provider contracts, coupled with continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups, may result in increased health care costs or limit our ability to 21 Table of Contents negotiate favorable rates. Changes in utilization rates, demographic characteristics, the regulatory environment, health care practices, inflation, new technologies, clusters of high-cost cases, continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups and numerous other factors affecting health care costs may adversely affect our ability to predict and control health care costs as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a large scale public health epidemic, such as the avian flu, could affect our ability to control health care costs. See “—Large-scale public health epidemics and / or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business financial condition and results of operations.” For several years, one of the fastest increasing categories of our health care costs has been the cost of hospital-based products and services. Factors underlying the increase in hospital costs include, but are not limited to, the underfunding of public programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare, growing rates of uninsured individuals, new technology, state initiated mandates, alleged abuse of hospital chargemasters, an aging population and, under certain circumstances, relatively low levels of hospital competition. Another significant category of our health care costs is costs of pharmaceutical products and services. Recently, the rate of increase in pharmaceutical costs has not been as a great as prior years due to a movement of several high volume drugs to lower cost generic status. Other factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of drugs, utilization of new and existing drugs and changes in discounts. As a measure of the impact of medical cost on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for our health plan products, our annual net earnings for 2006 would have been reduced by approximately $54 million. The inability to forecast and manage our health care costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. In addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service and the quality and depth of provider networks, price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. Our premium revenue is set in advance of the actual delivery of services, and, in certain circumstances, before contracting with providers. While we attempt to take into account our estimate of expected health care costs over the premium period in setting the premiums we charge, factors such as competition, regulations and other circumstances may limit our ability to fully base premiums on estimated costs. In addition, many factors may, and often do, cause actual health care costs to exceed those costs estimated and reflected in premiums. These factors may include increased utilization of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, seasonality, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, and insured population characteristics. Our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by significant disparities between the premium increases of our health plans and those of our major competitors or by limitations on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels. Over the course of 2004 and 2005, we instituted premium increases at the high end of the range of premium increases instituted by our competitors in order to improve margins on our commercial health plan business. We lost members as a result of these premium increases. In 2006, our pricing was, we believe, more consistent with that of our competitors but there can be no assurance that we will not reinstitute higher premiums in the future. Any future increase in premiums could result in the loss of members. Maintaining premiums at the high end of the market also increases the risk that our health plans are affected by “adverse risk selection.” Adverse risk selection occurs when members who utilize higher levels of health care services compared with the insured population as a whole choose to remain with our health plans at the higher premium rates rather than risk moving to another plan. This could cause health care costs to be higher than anticipated and therefore cause our financial results to fall short of expectations. 22 Table of Contents In the various states in which we do business, premium prices are also constrained by state laws and regulations which restrict the spread between premiums and benefits, such as laws and regulations that require a minimum loss ratio of a certain percentage. These laws and regulations not only restrict our ability to raise our premiums but also create competitive pressure from some of our competitors who may have lower health care costs than we have and therefore price their premiums at relatively low levels in relation to our cost of care. Our inability to estimate and maintain appropriate levels of reserves for claims may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reserves for claims are estimates of future costs based on various assumptions. The accuracy of these estimates may be affected by external forces such as changes in the rate of inflation, the regulatory environment, the judicious administration of claims, medical costs and other factors. Included in the reserves for claims are estimates for the costs of services that have been incurred but not reported and for claims received but not processed. These estimates are continually monitored and reviewed and, as settlements are made or estimates adjusted, differences are reflected in current operations. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the actual liability could differ significantly from the amounts reserved. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, it could have a negative impact on our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period. If our actual liability is lower than estimated, it could mean that we set premium prices too high, which could result in a loss of membership. If we were to lose membership as a result of our premium prices being set too high, there can be no assurance that we would be able to regain that membership by reducing premiums. Our businesses are subject to significant government regulation, which increases our cost of doing business and could adversely affect our ability to grow our businesses. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, financial requirements, licensing requirements, enrollment requirements and periodic examinations by governmental agencies. These laws and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than stockholders of managed health care companies such as Health Net. The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering these regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force us to change how we do business and may restrict our revenue and/or enrollment growth, and/or increase our health care and administrative costs, and/or increase our exposure to liability with respect to members, providers or others. In particular, our HMO and insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations relating to cash reserves, minimum net worth, premium rates, and approval of policy language and benefits. Although these regulations have not significantly impeded the growth of our businesses to date, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses or that regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Statutory Capital Requirements” for additional information. As a government contractor, we are subject to U.S. government oversight. The government may ask about and investigate our business practices and audit our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Depending on the results of those audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us. Under government procurement regulations and practices, a negative determination resulting from such claims could result in a contractor being fined, debarred and/or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time. We are also exposed to other risks associated with U.S. government contracting, including dependence upon Congressional appropriation and allotment of funds. In addition, laws or regulations adopted in the future could adversely affect our business. See “—Proposed federal and state legislation and regulations affecting the managed care industry could adversely affect us.” 23 Table of Contents Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain governmental approvals, or moratoria imposed by regulatory authorities, could adversely affect our revenue or the number of our members, increase costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. Our efforts to capitalize on Medicare business opportunities could prove to be unsuccessful. Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business, accounting for approximately 18% of our total revenue in 2006 and an expected 20% in 2007. Over the last several years we have significantly expanded our Medicare health plans and restructured our Medicare program management team and operations to enhance our ability to pursue business opportunities presented by the MMA and the Medicare program generally. For example, we recently introduced private fee-for-service (“PFFS”) Medicare Advantage plans, expanded our Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits plans to all 50 states, and are in the process of enhancing our HMO/PPO product offerings. This growth requires substantial administrative and operational capabilities which we have developed or for which we have contracted. For example, we use a third party vendor to administer the enrollment and billing functions for Medicare Part D and PFFS, as well as processing claims for PFFS. If the execution of these key operational functions is not successful, or we are unable to develop administrative capabilities to address the additional needs of our growing Medicare programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our Medicare business. Particular risks associated with our providing Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits under the MMA include potential uncollectability of receivables, inadequacy of pricing assumptions, inability to receive and process information and increased pharmaceutical costs, (as well as the underlying seasonality of this business). In addition, in connection with our participation in the Medicare Advantage and Part D programs, we regularly record revenues associated with the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism employed by CMS. This mechanism is designed to appropriately reimburse health plans for the relative health care cost risk of its Medicare enrollees. While we have historically recorded revenue and received payment for risk adjustment reimbursement settlements, there can be no assurance that we will receive payment from CMS for the levels of the risk adjustment premium revenue recorded in any given quarter. If the cost and complexity of the recent Medicare changes exceed our expectations or prevent effective program implementation; if the government alters or reduces funding of Medicare programs because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of the MMA or for other reasons; if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; or if we are not successful in winning contract renewals or new contracts under the MMA’s competitive bidding process, our current Medicare business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we may not be able to realize any return on our investments in Medicare initiatives. A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Approximately 46% of our revenues relate to federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE. All of the revenues in our Government Contracts segment come from the federal government. Under government-funded health programs, the government payor typically determines premium and reimbursement levels. If the government payor reduces premium or reimbursement levels or increases them by less than our costs increase, and we are unable to make offsetting adjustments through supplemental premiums and changes in benefit plans, we could be adversely affected. Contracts under these programs are generally subject to frequent change, including changes which may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the revenue received by us or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. Changes of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to government health care coverage programs in the future may also affect our willingness to participate in these programs. 24 Table of Contents The amount of government receivables set forth in our consolidated financial statements represents our best estimate of the government’s liability to us under TRICARE and other federal government contracts. In general, government receivables are estimates and subject to government audit and negotiation. In addition, inherent in government contracts are an uncertainty of and vulnerability to disagreements with the government. Final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize on our financial statements. Health care operations under our TRICARE North contract are scheduled to conclude on March 31, 2009, unless extended by the Department of Defense. The Department of Defense has the option to extend the TRICARE North contract for up to two additional one-year option periods. If the Department of Defense elects to extend for two additional one-year option periods and both option periods are exercised, the TRICARE North contract would conclude on March 31, 2011. If the Department of Defense does not elect to extend our TRICARE North contract, we will be required to participate in the bidding process for a new contract. If we were not awarded a new TRICARE contract, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. States periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for Medicaid. Currently, many states are experiencing budget deficits, and some states, including California, have reduced or have begun to reduce, or have proposed reductions in, payments to Medicaid managed care providers. Any significant reduction in payments received in connection with Medicaid could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may experience losses as a result of the regional concentration of our business. Our business operations are concentrated in the Northeast (in the states of Connecticut, New York and New Jersey) and in the states of California, Arizona and Oregon. Our California operations represented approximately 45.5% of our total revenue in 2006. Due to this concentration in a small number of states, and, in particular, California, we are exposed to the risk of a deterioration in our financial results arising from a significant economic downturn in one or more of these states. If economic conditions in these states significantly deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if any one of our health plans experiences significant losses, our consolidated results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A deterioration in margins in any one of the states in which we operate, or a loss of large accounts to national competitors, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations if we are unable to offset the deterioration with adequate future premium increases. Proposed federal and state legislation and regulations affecting the managed health care industry could adversely affect us. The United States Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently consider legislative proposals and regulatory initiatives which, if enacted, could materially affect the managed health care industry and the regulatory environment. These proposals have included initiatives which, if enacted, could have significant adverse effects on our operations, including subjecting us to additional litigation risk, regulatory compliance costs and restrictions on our business operations. Such measures have proposed, among other things, to: • Restrict or eliminate health insurers and health plans in the marketplace; • Restrict a health insurer or health plan’s profitability or regulate the medical cost ratio; • Require health plans to pay significantly higher taxes, or reduce government funding of government-sponsored health programs in which we participate; • Restrict the ability of health plans to establish member financial responsibility; 25 Table of Contents • Mandate certain benefits and services that could increase the cost of healthcare or administrative services, or to manage the member’s care through authorization requirements, requirements of medical necessity, or formularies for covered pharmaceuticals; • Restrict our ability to contract with and manage access to providers and provider groups, enhance certain provider payments or appeal rights, or restrict our ability to select and terminate providers; • Mandate certain grievance and appeal rights for our members, including establishment of third-party reviews of certain care decisions; and • Regulate the individual coverage market by restricting or mandating premium levels, restrict our underwriting discretion, or restrict our ability to rescind coverage based on a member’s misrepresentations and omissions. Recently, the issue of affordable health insurance and the challenge of insuring the uninsured have generated much public attention. In states where we conduct business, governors and state legislatures are considering various proposals to cover the uninsured. These proposals include, but are not limited to, restructuring the health insurance market to mandate coverage, guaranteeing insurance in the individual market, merging individual and small group markets, placing a cap on loss ratios or premiums or otherwise taking steps to expand access to health insurance in a manner that does not allow for management of risk. The decisions of health plans to rescind coverage and decline payment to treating providers has also generated public attention, particularly in California. This has, in turn, generated a petition by a consumer group to the DMHC to adopt regulations to restrict these practices. The DMHC is currently considering such a regulation and has held a public hearing on the subject. On February 23, 2007, a bill was introduced in the California legislature that further restricts a health plan’s or insurer’s ability to rescind the beneficiary’s coverage and to deny payment to treating providers. We cannot predict the outcome of the legislative and regulatory proposals described above or any other such legislative or regulatory proposals, nor the extent to which we may be affected by the enactment of any such legislation or regulations. Such legislation or regulation, including measures that would cause us to change our current manner of operation or increase our exposure to liability, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete in our industry. Federal and state audits, review and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have been and, in some cases, currently are, involved in various federal and state governmental audits, reviews and investigations. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments and others. Such audits, reviews and investigations could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate in certain programs, or the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. Many regulatory audits, reviews and investigations in recent years have focused on the timeliness and accuracy of claims payments by managed care companies and health insurers. Our subsidiaries have been the subject of audits, reviews and investigations of this nature. Depending on the circumstances and the specific matters reviewed, regulatory findings could require remediation of claims payment errors and payment of penalties of material amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, we are currently the subject of a regulatory investigation in New Jersey that relates to the timeliness and accuracy of our claim payments for services rendered by out of network providers. The New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“New Jersey DOBI”) has commenced an audit of our claims 26 Table of Contents payment practices for out of network claims. Depending on the outcome of the audit, the New Jersey DOBI could impose monetary fines or require remediation of out of network claims payment inaccuracies which could have significant adverse effects on our business. Our New Jersey and New York health plans have also been subject to other investigations by the New Jersey DOBI and the New York Department of Insurance on a variety of other claims payment matters and in some cases have entered into consent agreements relating to, and have agreed to pay fines in connection with, these claims payment practices. Similarly, HN California, our California HMO, has entered into a Consent Agreement with the California DMHC regarding its prepayment line item review and repricing processes. See “Item 1. Business—Provider Relationships—Hospital Relationships” for additional information. In addition, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with regulations applicable to government contractors. U.S. government investigations of us, whether relating to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals and other providers that we contract with, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals and other providers as a means to assure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments or take other actions, including litigation, which could result in higher health care costs, less desirable products for customers and members, disruption to provider access for current members or to support growth, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. Some of these providers may compete directly with us. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market our products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. We contract with professional providers in California primarily through capitation fee arrangements. We also use capitation fee arrangements in areas other than California, but to a lesser extent. Under a capitation fee arrangement, we pay a provider group a fixed amount per member on a regular basis and the provider group accepts the risk of the frequency and cost of member utilization of professional services. Provider groups that enter into capitation fee arrangements generally contract with specialists and other secondary providers, and may contract with primary care physicians, to provide services. The inability of provider groups to properly manage costs under capitation arrangements can result in their financial instability and the termination of their relationship with us. A provider group’s financial instability or failure to pay secondary providers for services rendered could lead secondary providers to demand payment from us, even though we have made our regular capitated payments to the provider group. Depending on state law, we could be liable for such claims. In California, the liability of our HMO subsidiaries for unpaid provider claims has not been definitively settled. There can be no assurance that we will not be liable for unpaid provider claims. There can also be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with secondary providers, the failure of any of which could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. Some providers that render services to our members and insureds are not contracted with our plans and insurance companies. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and the plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states and product lines, the amount of compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translated into dollar terms. In such instances providers may believe they are 27 Table of Contents underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the plan or balance bill our member. We may then have an obligation to protect our members against financial harm, either by paying the provider the additional amount demanded or by reimbursing the member for his/her out-of-pocket payment. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Provider groups and hospitals have in certain situations commenced litigation and/or arbitration proceedings against us to recover amounts they allege to be underpayments due to them under their contracts with us. We believe that provider groups and hospitals have become increasingly sophisticated in their review of claim payments and contractual terms in an effort to maximize their payments from us and have increased their use of outside professionals, including accounting firms and attorneys, in these efforts. These efforts and the litigation and arbitration that result from them could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a $169 million pretax charge related to expenses associated with settlements involving provider disputes. For additional information regarding provider disputes, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Provider Disputes.” We face risks related to litigation, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, we incur material expenses in the defense of litigation and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected if we fail to accurately project litigation expenses. We are subject to a variety of legal actions to which any corporation may be subject, including employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, fraud and misrepresentation claims, shareholder suits, including suits for securities fraud, and intellectual property and real estate related disputes. In addition, we incur and likely will continue to incur potential liability for claims related to the insurance industry in general and our business in particular, such as claims by members alleging failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, improper rescission, termination or non-renewal of coverage and insufficient payments for out-of-network services; claims by employer groups for return of premiums; and claims by providers, including claims for withheld or otherwise insufficient compensation or reimbursement, claims related to self-funded business, and claims related to reinsurance matters. Such actions can also include allegations of fraud, misrepresentation, and unfair or improper business practices and can include claims for punitive damages. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against various managed care organizations, including us. In some of the cases pending against us, substantial non-economic or punitive damages are also being sought. For example in McCoy v. Health Net, Inc. et al., and Wachtel v. Guardian Life Insurance Co., the plaintiffs allege that the manner in which our various subsidiaries paid member claims for out-of-network services was improper. Plaintiffs sought severe sanctions against us for a variety of alleged misconduct, discovery abuses and fraud on the court. In December 2006, the court in the McCoy and Wachtel matters issued an order against us that, among other things, required us to pay plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees in connection with the sanctions proceedings in an amount to be determined at a later date. In addition, the court ordered that a special master be retained at our expense to monitor the completion of discovery in the case and assessed a monetary fine against us in an amount to be determined at a later date. Based on our assessment of developments in this litigation,, during the three months ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a pretax charge of approximately $37 million in anticipation of our ongoing litigation defense expenses in these cases, as well as the probable award of attorneys’ fees. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding the McCoy and Wachtel matters and Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the pretax charge. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty, and we are incurring material expenses in the defense of litigation matters, including without limitation, substantial discovery costs. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation, other such liabilities (such as 28 Table of Contents punitive damages or the cost of implementing changes in our operations required by the resolution of a claim), may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the insurers could dispute coverage or the amount of insurance could not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded. Insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level that would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. The deductible on our errors and omissions (“E&O”) insurance has reached such a level. Given the amount of the deductible, the only cases which would be covered by our E&O insurance are those involving claims that substantially exceed our average claim values and otherwise qualify for coverage under the terms of the insurance policy. Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of the types of claims we face. There is a risk that we could incur substantial legal fees and expenses, including discovery expenses, in any of the actions we defend in excess of amounts budgeted for defense. Plaintiffs’ attorneys have increasingly used expansive electronic discovery requests as a litigation tactic. Responding to these requests, the scope of which may exceed the normal capacity of our historical systems for archiving and organizing electronic documents, may require application of significant resources and impose significant costs on us. In certain cases, we could also be subject to awards of substantial legal fees and costs to plaintiffs’ counsel. We regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, to determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The costs associated with any such settlement could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in an earnings charge in any particular quarter in which we enter into a settlement agreement. Although we have recorded litigation reserves which represent our best estimate on probable losses, both known and incurred but not reported, our recorded reserves might prove to be inadequate to cover an adverse result or settlement for extraordinary matters, such as the matters described in Note 12. Therefore, costs associated with the various litigation matters to which we are subject and any earnings charge recorded in connection with a settlement agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties. Our performance may not be consistent with these forecasts and forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and, as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. For example, during 2006, gross margins in our commercial and Medicare lines of business were better than expected, pretax margins in our Government Contracts segment were higher than projected and administrative expenses were higher than expected. In prior years, commercial and Medicare health care costs have been higher than anticipated, causing margins to narrow more than expected and causing a negative impact on our financial and operating results. The achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure that our performance will meet any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire mix of publicly available historical and forward- looking information, as well as other available information affecting us, our services, and our industry when evaluating our forecasts and other forward-looking statements relating to our operations and financial performance. 29 Table of Contents The markets in which we do business are highly competitive. If we do not design and price our products competitively, our membership and profitability could decline. We are in a highly competitive industry. Many of our competitors may have certain characteristics, capabilities or resources, such as greater market share, superior supplier arrangements and existing business relationships, that give them an advantage in competing with us. These competitors include HMOs, PPOs, self-funded employers, insurance companies, hospitals, health care facilities and other health care providers. In addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future, including emerging competitors in the Medicare program and in consumer-directed health plans. We believe that increased funding provided by the MMA will increase the number of competitors in senior health services and could affect our Medicare Advantage program. For example, in 2006, a large PPG in Kern County, California was able to secure a Knox-Keene license and a contract with CMS and is now in direct competition with our Medicare operations in that county. In addition, financial services or other technology-based companies could enter the market and compete with us on the basis of their streamlined administrative functions. The addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. There is a risk that our customers may decide to perform for themselves functions or services currently provided by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, our providers and suppliers may decide to market products and services to our customers in competition with us. In recent years, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity in our industry and in industries that act as our suppliers, such as the hospital, physician, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. This activity may create stronger competitors and/or result in higher health care costs. In addition, our contracts with government agencies are frequently up for re-bid and the loss of any significant government contract to a competitor could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that there is strong competition or that competition intensifies in any market, our ability to retain or increase customers, our revenue growth, our pricing flexibility, our control over medical cost trends and our marketing expenses may all be adversely affected. In the past several years we have experienced significant turnover in senior management. If we are unable to manage succession of our key executives, it could adversely affect our business. We have experienced a high turnover in our senior management team in recent years. While we have succession plans in place and have employment arrangements with certain of our key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these key executives will continue to be available to us. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team. Our efforts to capitalize on business opportunities provided by consumer-directed healthcare could prove to be unsuccessful. Nearly every major managed care organization has launched, announced or is developing HSA-compatible high-deductible health plans. We have launched HSA programs in our Northeast, Arizona, California and Oregon health plans. Our HSA programs represented a very small percentage of our total revenue in 2006. Some of our large competitors, such as Aetna and Blue Cross Blue Shield plans, have made large investments in, and heavily marketed, their consumer-directed health plans and have gained more enrollment in many markets across the country. If their enrollment trend continues, it may widen the competitive gap between us over the next several years. If we fail to design, maintain and effectively market consumer-directed health care programs that are attractive to consumers and, as a result, are unable to achieve a competitive market share in the consumer-directed care category, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect our operations. Our indebtedness includes $200 million of borrowings under a bridge loan agreement, which are due in March 2007, and $300 million of borrowings under a term loan agreement, which are due in June 2011. In addition, to provide liquidity, we have a $700 million five-year revolving credit facility that expires in June 2009. As of December 31, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under our revolving credit facility. We may incur additional debt in the future. Our existing indebtedness, and any additional debt we incur in the future through drawings on our revolving credit facility or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We are considering alternative financing options, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and/or potential structured financing arrangements, to repay the amounts outstanding under the bridge loan agreement on or prior to maturity. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. We are a holding company and a substantial amount of our cash flow is generated by our subsidiaries. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends and maintenance of minimum levels of capital. As a holding company, our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to pay our debt depends, in part, on the amount of cash that we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will depend on their earnings, business and tax considerations, legal and regulatory restrictions and economic conditions. In addition, in certain states our regulated subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements, known as RBC. These laws require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance in their state of domicile and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject certain of our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including increased reporting and/or state supervision. In addition, in most states, we are required to seek prior approval before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. Our regulated subsidiaries are currently in compliance with the risk-based capital or other similar requirements imposed by their respective states of domicile. If our regulated subsidiaries are restricted from paying us dividends or otherwise making cash transfers to us, it could have material adverse effect on our results of operations and Health Net, Inc.’s free cash flow. For additional information regarding our regulated subsidiaries’ statutory capital requirements, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Statutory Capital Requirements.” 31 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility, bridge loan agreement and term loan agreement contain restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our revolving credit facility, bridge loan agreement and term loan agreement require us to comply with various covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments or other restricted payments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets and engage in other activities. In addition, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum borrower cash flow fixed charge coverage ratio or, depending on our debt rating by Moody’s and/or S&P, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth requirement. The restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility, bridge loan agreement and term loan agreement could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. In addition, any failure by us to comply with the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility, bridge loan agreement or term loan agreement could result in an event of default under those borrowing arrangements, in which case the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we fail to effectively maintain our management information systems, it could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, pricing our services, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims, billing our customers on a timely basis and identifying accounts for collection. Our customers and providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verification, claims status and other information. We have many different information systems for our various businesses and these systems require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity requires frequent transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems. We are in the process of consolidating a significant number of our core and surround systems as part of our Health Net One systems consolidation project. See “Item 1. Business—Additional Information Concerning Our Business—Health Net One Systems Consolidation Project” for information regarding this consolidation project. We believe that by consolidating our systems into one common nationwide set, we will gain operational and cost efficiencies. Any difficulty or unexpected delay associated with the transition to or from information systems, any inability or failure to properly maintain management information systems, or any inability or failure to successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs, could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, regulatory problems, significant increases in administrative expenses and/or other adverse consequences. In addition, we may, from time-to-time, obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties which may make our operations vulnerable to adverse effects if such third parties fail to perform adequately. We must comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. In December 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services promulgated regulations under HIPAA related to the privacy and security of electronically transmitted PHI. The regulations require health plans, clearinghouses and providers to (a) comply with various requirements and restrictions related to the use, storage and disclosure of PHI, (b) adopt rigorous internal procedures to safeguard PHI and (c) enter into specific written agreements with business associates to whom PHI is disclosed. The regulations also establish significant criminal penalties and civil sanctions for non-compliance. In addition, the regulations could expose us to additional liability for, among other things, violations of the regulations by our business associates. Although we provide for appropriate protections in our contracts with our business associates, we have limited control over their 32 Table of Contents actions and practices. Compliance with HIPAA and other state and federal privacy regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Managed health care companies have received and continue to receive negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. The managed health care industry has also recently experienced significant merger and acquisition activity, giving rise to speculation and uncertainty regarding the status of companies in our industry. Our marketing efforts may be affected by the amount of negative publicity to which the managed health care industry has been subject, as well as by speculation and uncertainty relating to merger and acquisition activity among companies in our industry. Speculation, uncertainty or negative publicity about us, our industry or our lines of business could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products or services, require changes to our products or services, or stimulate additional legislation, regulation, review of industry practices or private litigation that could adversely affect us. If we are unable to manage our general and administrative expenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The level of our administrative expenses can affect our profitability, and administrative expense increases are difficult to predict. While we attempt to effectively manage such expenses, including through the development of online functionalities and other projects designed to create administrative efficiencies (such as the Health Net One systems consolidation project), increases in staff- related and other administrative expenses may occur from time to time due to business or product start-ups or expansions (such as Medicare Advantage and Part D), growth, membership declines or changes in business, difficulties or delays in projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, acquisitions, reliance on outsourced services, regulatory requirements, including compliance with HIPAA regulations, or other reasons. For example, in 2005 we spent approximately $29 million in general and administrative expenses on Medicare-related opportunities. In 2006, our general and administrative expenses increased as a result of our focus on investing in commercial enrollment growth in targeted small group segments and for our ongoing investment in Medicare as we prepared for entry into the private fee-for-service market. In 2007, we expect our administrative expenses to increase as we continue to support expected commercial growth. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our administrative expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are required to publicly disclose information regarding our reimbursement rates and preferred drug lists for our Connecticut Medicaid program, it could have a material adverse effect on our Connecticut Medicaid business. In 2006, a petition was submitted to the Connecticut Freedom of Information Commission (the “CT FOIC”) seeking, among other things, information regarding provider reimbursement rates and maintenance of preferred drug lists used by managed care organizations contracting with the Connecticut Department of Social Services in connection with the Connecticut Medicaid program. In response to the petition, the CT FOIC ruled that the Connecticut Department of Social Services must furnish the information requested and had to amend its existing contracts with managed care organizations participating in the Connecticut Medicaid program making them subject to the Connecticut Freedom of Information Act. Health Net of Connecticut and two other managed care organizations appealed the CT FOIC decision to the Connecticut Superior Court, which upheld the CT FOIC’s decision. Health Net of Connecticut has appealed the court’s decision to the Connecticut Appellate Court. If Health Net of Connecticut loses this appeal and is required to publicly disclose information regarding its reimbursement rates and preferred drug lists, it could have a material adverse effect on Health Net of 33 Table of Contents Connecticut’s ability to contract with providers in Connecticut and compete effectively in the Connecticut Medicaid program. Changes in the value of our investment assets could have a negative effect on our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Substantially all of our investment assets are in interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities. The value of fixed-income securities is highly sensitive to fluctuations in short- and long-term interest rates, with the value decreasing as such rates increase and increasing as such rates decrease. In addition, our regulated subsidiaries are also subject to state laws and regulations that govern the types of investments that are allowable and admissible in those subsidiaries’ portfolios. There can be no assurance that our investment assets will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations or otherwise, could have a negative affect on our stockholders’ equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend, in part, on independent brokers and sales agents to market our products and services, and recent regulatory investigations have focused on certain brokerage practices, including broker compensation arrangements and bid quoting practices. We market our products and services both through sales people employed by us and through independent sales agents. Independent sales agents typically do not work with us on an exclusive basis and may market health care products and services of our competitors. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent sales agents and we cannot assure you that these agents will continue to market our products at a reasonable cost. Although we have a number of sales employees and agents, if key sales employees or agents or a large subset of these individuals were to leave us, our ability to retain existing customers and members could be impaired. There have been a number of investigations and enforcement actions against insurance brokers and insurers over the last several years regarding allegedly inappropriate or undisclosed payments made by insurers to brokers for the placement of insurance business. While we are not aware of any unlawful practices by the Company or any of our agents or brokers in connection with the marketing and sales of our products and services, current investigations by the New York Attorney General and other regulators as well as regulatory changes initiated in several states in response to allegedly inappropriate payment practices could result in changes in industry practices that could have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. In 2006, the HMO Index, an index comprised of 12 managed care organizations, including Health Net, recorded an approximate 7% rise in its value, while the per-share value of our common stock decreased by approximately 6%. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will vary in a manner consistent with the variation in the HMO Index or the Standard & Poor’s 400 Mid-Cap Index of which our common stock is also a component. The market prices of our common stock and the securities of certain other publicly-traded companies in our industry have shown volatility and sensitivity in response to many factors, including public communications regarding managed care, legislative or regulatory actions, litigation or threatened litigation, health care cost trends, pricing trends, competition, earnings or membership reports of particular industry participants, and market speculation about or actual acquisition activity. Additionally, adverse developments affecting any one of the leading companies in our sector could cause the price of our common stock to weaken, even if those adverse developments do not otherwise affect us. There can be no assurances regarding the level or stability of our share price at any time or the impact of these or any other factors on our stock price. 34 Table of Contents Large-scale public health epidemics and/or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the avian flu, and/or future terrorist activities, including bio-terrorism, could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. Depending on the government’s actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and insurance companies, a large-scale public health epidemic or future acts of bio-terrorism could lead to, among other things, increased use of health care services, disruption of information and payment systems, increased health care costs due to increased in-patient and out-patient hospital costs and the cost of any anti-viral medication used to treat affected people. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, tornado, power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our members and providers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to maintain fully redundant systems for our operations in the event of a natural disaster utilizing various alternate sites provided by a national disaster recovery vendor. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 