Item 1A. Risk Factors—We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect our operations.” Senior Credit Facility We have a $700 million senior credit facility under a five-year revolving credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, JP Morgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent, and the other lenders party thereto. As of December 31, 2005, no amounts were outstanding under our senior credit facility and our maximum commitment level under our senior credit facility was $700 million. Borrowings under our senior credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, and to service our working capital needs. We must repay all borrowings, if any, under our senior credit facility by June 30, 2009, unless the maturity date under the senior credit facility is extended. Interest on any amount outstanding under the senior credit facility is payable monthly at a rate per annum of (a) LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 50 to 112.5 basis points or (b) the higher of (1) the Bank of America prime rate and (2) the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, plus a margin of up to 12.5 basis points. We have also incurred and will continue to incur customary fees in connection with the senior credit facility. Our senior credit facility requires us to comply with certain covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including the maintenance of a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum net worth and a limitation on dividends and distributions. We are currently in compliance with all covenants related to our senior credit facility. We can obtain letters of credit in an aggregate amount of $200 million under our senior credit facility, which reduces the maximum amount available for borrowing under our senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate of $102.9 million in letters of credit issued pursuant to the senior credit facility primarily to secure surety bonds issued in connection with litigation (see “—Contractual Obligations” below). In addition, we secured a letter of credit effective January 1, 2006 in the amount of $10.0 million to cover risk of insolvency for the State of Arizona. No amounts have been drawn on any of these letters of credit. As a result of the issuance of these letters of credit, the maximum amount available for borrowing under the senior credit facility was $587.1 million as of January 1, 2006. Due to the Moody’s and S&P downgrades of our senior unsecured debt rating as discussed above, we are currently prohibited under the terms of the senior credit facility from making dividends, distributions or redemptions in respect of our capital stock in excess of $75 million in any consecutive four-quarter period, are subject to a minimum borrower cash flow fixed charge coverage ratio rather than the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, are subject to additional reporting requirements to the lenders, and are subject to increased interest and fees applicable to any outstanding borrowings and any letters of credit secured under the senior credit facility. The minimum borrower cash flow fixed charge coverage ratio calculates the fixed charge on a parent-company-only basis. In the event either Moody’s or S&P upgrades our senior unsecured debt rating to at least Baa3 or BBB-, respectively, our coverage ratio will revert back to the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. 64 Table of Contents On March 1, 2005, we entered into an amendment to our senior credit facility. The amendment, among other things, amends the definition of Consolidated EBITDA to exclude up to $375 million relating to cash and non-cash, non-recurring charges in connection with litigation and provider settlement payments, any increase in medical claims reserves and any premiums relating to the repayment or refinancing of our Senior Notes to the extent such charges cause a corresponding reduction in Consolidated Net Worth (as defined in the senior credit facility). Such exclusion from the calculation of the Consolidated EBITDA was applicable to the five fiscal quarter periods commencing with the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2004 and ending with the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005. On August 8, 2005, we entered into a second amendment to our senior credit facility. The second amendment, among other things, amends the definition of Minimum Borrower Cash Flow Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio to exclude from the calculation of Minimum Borrower Cash Flow Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio any capital contributions made by the parent company to its regulated subsidiaries if such capital contribution is derived from the proceeds of a sale, transfer, lease or other disposition of the parent company’s assets. Statutory Capital Requirements Certain of our subsidiaries must comply with minimum capital and surplus requirements under applicable state laws and regulations, and must have adequate reserves for claims. Management believes that as of December 31, 2005, all of our health plans and insurance subsidiaries met their respective regulatory requirements. By law, regulation and governmental policy, our health plan and insurance subsidiaries, which we refer to as our regulated subsidiaries, are required to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth. The minimum statutory net worth requirements differ by state and are generally based on balances established by statute, a percentage of annualized premium revenue, a percentage of annualized health care costs, or risk-based capital (RBC) requirements. The RBC requirements are based on guidelines established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). The RBC formula, which calculates asset risk, underwriting risk, credit risk, business risk and other factors, generates the authorized control level (ACL), which generally represents the minimum amount of net worth believed to be required to support the regulated entity’s business. Although RBC standards are not yet applicable to all of our regulated subsidiaries, for states in which the RBC requirements have been adopted, the regulated entity typically must maintain the greater of the Company Action Level RBC, calculated as 200% of the ACL, or the minimum statutory net worth requirement calculated pursuant to pre-RBC guidelines. Because our regulated subsidiaries are also subject to their state regulators’ overall oversight authority, some of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum capital and surplus in excess of the RBC requirement, even though RBC has been adopted in their states of domicile. We generally manage our aggregate regulated subsidiary capital against 300% of ACL. At December 31, 2005, we had sufficient capital to exceed this level. In addition to the foregoing requirements, our regulated subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to make dividend payments, loans and other transfers of cash or other assets to the parent company. As necessary, we make contributions to and issue standby letters of credit on behalf of our subsidiaries to meet RBC or other statutory capital requirements under state laws and regulations. Health Net, Inc. elected to contribute $140.4 million in cash and $33.1 million in property to certain of its subsidiaries during the year ended December 31, 2005 to further strengthen such subsidiaries’ RBC. Except for the $140.4 million and $33.1 million in capital contributions, our parent company did not make any capital contributions to its subsidiaries to meet RBC or other statutory capital requirements under state laws and regulations during the year ended December 31, 2005 or thereafter through the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Legislation has been or may be enacted in certain states in which our subsidiaries operate imposing substantially increased minimum capital and/or statutory deposit requirements for HMOs in such states. Such statutory deposits may only be drawn upon under limited circumstances relating to the protection of policyholders. 65 Table of Contents As a result of the above requirements and other regulatory requirements, certain subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to make dividend payments, loans or other transfers of cash to their parent companies. Such restrictions, unless amended or waived, or unless regulatory approval is granted, limit the use of any cash generated by these subsidiaries to pay our obligations. The maximum amount of dividends which can be paid by our insurance company subsidiaries without prior approval of the applicable state insurance departments is subject to restrictions relating to statutory surplus, statutory income and unassigned surplus. Contractual Obligations Our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 and their impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31: Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter (Dollars in Millions) Long-term debt $ 630.0 $ 41.8 $ 41.5 $ 41.6 $ 42.0 $ 42.0 $ 421.1 Operating leases 371.9 67.5 64.3 85.8 38.2 32.3 83.8 Other purchase obligations 34.5 25.4 3.6 2.7 2.3 0.5 — Deferred compensation 39.5 5.4 2.7 2.4 2.4 2.2 24.4 Estimated future payments for pension and other benefits 22.8 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.7 1.8 15.0 (a) (a) Represents estimated future payments from 2011 through 2015. Operating Leases We lease office space under various operating leases. Certain leases are cancelable with substantial penalties. See “