Item 1A. Risk FactorsCautionary Statements The following discussion, as well as other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regarding our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical information provided or incorporated by reference herein, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, statements including the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “estimate,” “intend,” “feels,” “will,” “projects” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by the forward-looking information and statements due to, among other things, health care reform and other increased government participation in and taxation or regulation of health benefits and managed care operations, including but not limited to the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the "ACA") and related fees, assessments and taxes; the Company’s ability to successfully participate in California’s Coordinated Care Initiative, which is subject to a number of risks inherent in untested health care initiatives and requires us to adequately predict the costs of providing benefits to individuals that are generally among the most chronically ill within each of Medicare and Medi-Cal and implement delivery systems for benefits with which we have limited operating experience; our ability to successfully participate in the federal and state health insurance exchanges under the ACA, which have experienced technical challenges in implementation and which involve uncertainties related to the mix and volume of business that could negatively impact the adequacy of our premium rates and may not be sufficiently offset by the risk apportionment provisions of the ACA; increasing health care costs; our ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; negative prior period claims reserve developments; rate cuts and other risks and uncertainties affecting our Medicare or Medicaid businesses; our ability to successfully participate in Arizona’s Medicaid program; trends in medical care ratios; membership declines or negative changes in our health care product mix; unexpected utilization patterns or unexpectedly severe or widespread illnesses; the timing of collections on amounts receivable from state and federal governments and agencies, including collections of amounts owed under the T-3 contract; litigation costs; regulatory issues with federal and state agencies including, but not limited to, the California Department of Managed Health Care, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Office of Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and state departments of insurance; operational issues; changes in economic or market conditions including a further decline in the economy; failure to effectively oversee our third-party vendors; noncompliance by our or our business associates with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information; impairment of 23our goodwill or other intangible assets; investment portfolio impairment charges; volatility in the financial markets; liabilities incurred in connection with our divested operations; and general business and market conditions. Additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risks set forth below, and the other risks discussed in our other filings with the SEC.Any or all forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many of the factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. These factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of operations or results by us or our representatives, including any forward-looking discussion, as well as information contained in press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors or other communications by us. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which reflect management's analysis, judgment, belief or expectation only as of the date thereof and are subject to changes in circumstances and a number of risks and uncertainties. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements.Federal health care reform legislation has had and will continue to have an adverse impact on the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.The ACA transformed the U.S. health care system through a series of complex initiatives. The measures initiated by the ACA and the associated preparation for and implementation of these measures have had, and will continue to have an adverse impact on our revenues and the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Due in part to the scope and complexity of these initiatives, as well as their ongoing implementation, the ultimate impact of the ACA on us remains difficult to predict.The ACA imposes significant fees, assessments and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and industry participants. Among others, the ACA imposes a significant non-deductible tax (technically called a “fee”) on health insurers, effective for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2013. This “health insurer fee” will be assessed at a total of $8 billion in 2014, will increase thereafter, and will be allocated pro rata amongst industry participants based on a ratio of net health insurance premiums written for the previous calendar year to total net premiums written for the U.S. health insurance industry, subject to certain exceptions. We expect to make our first payment of the health insurer fee in 2014. We currently estimate our allocable share of the health insurer fee payable in 2014, based upon 2013 premiums, will be approximately $145 million. However, this estimate is subject to inherent uncertainty as the amount of industry premiums upon which the fee allocation is based has not yet been announced. We will experience significant volatility in our cash flow from operations relative to our results of operations in a given period because the health insurer fee will be payable in a single lump sum based on prior year premiums. Due in large part to the impact of the health insurer fee, which is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes, we expect our effective income tax rate will be significantly higher than the 35% statutory federal tax rate and will exceed 50%, excluding unusual charges or benefits.In addition, while certain types of entities and benefits are fully or partially exempt from the health insurer fee, including, among others, government entities, certain non-profit insurers and self-funded plans, we are unable to take advantage of any significant exemptions due to our current mix of plans and product offerings. Consequently, the health insurer fee will represent a higher percentage of our premium revenues than those of our competitors who have business lines that are exempt from the health insurer fee or whose non-profit status may result in a reduced health insurer fee. Moreover, some of our competitors may have greater economies of scale or a different mix of business, which, among other things, may lead to lower expense ratios and higher profit margins than we have. Since the health insurer fee is not tax deductible and is based on net health insurance premiums written, rather than profits, it will generally represent a higher percentage of our profits as compared to those competitors. As a result, the health insurer fee will likely impact us to a greater degree than certain of our larger competitors and those of our competitors who may be able to exempt significant portions of their premium base from the health insurer fee allocation, for example. We generally will be unable to match those competitors’ ability to support reduced premiums by virtue of any full or partial exemptions from the health insurer fee, or by virtue of making changes to distribution arrangements, decreasing spending on non-medical product features and services, or otherwise adjusting operating costs and reducing general and administrative expenses, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability and our ability to compete effectively with these competitors. For example, our ability to incorporate the impact of the health insurer fee into our 2014 premium rates, which are set a year in advance in 2013, was limited, in large part due to competitive pressures. 24As a whole, the ACA’s fees, assessments and taxes will increase the costs of operating our business, including increasing medical and other health care costs, and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, while the ACA does also present significant new business opportunities for us, we and other health insurance companies face uncertainty and execution risk due to the multiple, complex ACA implementations that are required in abbreviated time frames in new markets. Additionally, in many cases, our operational and strategic initiatives must be implemented in evolving regulatory environments and without the benefit of established market data. In addition, the lack of operating experience in these new marketplaces for insurers and, in certain cases, providers and consumers, increases the likelihood of a dynamic marketplace that may require us to adjust our operating and strategic initiatives over time, and there is no assurance that insurers, including us, will be able to do so successfully. Our execution risk encapsulates, among other things, our simultaneous participation in the exchanges, Medicaid expansion and California’s Coordinated Care Initiative (“CCI”), as further described under the heading “Business—Segment Information—Western Region Operations Segment—California Coordinated Care Initiative” below. These initiatives require us to effectively incorporate new and expanded populations and, among other things, have required that we restructure our provider network in response, and will require us to remain diligent in monitoring the market to, among other things, effectively and efficiently adapt to the ACA’s dynamic environment. Any delay or failure by us to execute our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to health care reform or otherwise appropriately react to the legislation, implementing regulations, actions of our competitors and the changing marketplace could result in operational disruptions, disputes with our providers or members, increased exposure to litigation, regulatory issues, damage to our existing or potential member relationships or other adverse consequences.Due to the magnitude, scope, complexity and remaining uncertainties of the ACA, including the continuing modification and interpretation of the ACA rules and the operational risks involved with simultaneous implementation of multiple initiatives in new markets without established market data, we cannot predict the ultimate impact on our business of future regulations and laws, including state laws, implementing the ACA. Depending in part on its ultimate requirements, the ACA could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.The ACA has been the subject of various legal challenges and legislative initiatives, which increase the uncertainty of how the law will impact us.There are numerous steps required to implement the ACA, and although many significant regulations have been finalized, further amendments to these regulations, additional clarifying regulations and other guidance are expected over several years. We are still awaiting further final regulations or guidance on a number of key provisions, including many related to the ACA’s health insurance exchanges as further described in the risk factor below under the heading, “We cannot assure you that our participation in the ACA’s health insurance exchanges will be a success.” Final regulations relating to the Medicare Shared Savings Program reflecting the use of ACOs have been issued, but as noted above, the impact of these new regulations on the health care market and the role to be played by health plans in the operation of ACOs remains to be determined, and HHS has indicated the possibility that it will further revise the ACO program in the future. Moreover, even in cases where the federal government has issued final regulations, we and other health insurers continue to face uncertainty because these final regulations are sometimes unclear or incomplete, subject to further change or rely on sub-regulatory guidance. In addition to ongoing regulatory questions, many of the operational components of health care reform are still being developed, including how market participants ultimately interact and adapt to the new requirements within and outside the ACA’s state-run and federal health insurance exchanges. As a result, many of the impacts of health care reform will not be evident until the ultimate requirements of the ACA have been definitively determined, the various related programs have been fully implemented and both insurers and regulators are able to make necessary adjustments.In addition, certain legal and legislative challenges to the ACA remain despite the U.S. Supreme Court’s June 2012 decision in NFIB v. Sebelius. In Sebelius, the Supreme Court upheld the ACA’s individual mandate as valid under Congress’ taxing power. The Sebelius decision also permits states to opt out of the elements of the ACA that require expansion of Medicaid coverage in January 2014 without losing their existing federal Medicaid funding. Arizona and California have extended coverage to the uninsured through Medicaid expansions; however, the law in Arizona authorizing the expansion may be subject to litigation, which may remain unresolved until 2014 or later. Notwithstanding Sebelius, other legal challenges to the ACA have been threatened or are still pending at lower court levels, which could result in portions of the ACA being struck down. These threatened and pending challenges include disputing the IRS’s official position that premium tax credits are available to low-income individuals who purchase insurance through federally facilitated exchanges. In January 2014, a federal district court judge upheld the 25IRS’s rule, finding that it was consistent with the text of the ACA. However, that ruling is being appealed, and similar cases are also pending in district courts. A successful challenge in this area could significantly affect the affordability of insurance to low-income individuals in states that do not administer their own exchanges, such as Arizona. A number of cases challenging the rule that all health plans must provide contraceptive services have progressed through federal appellate courts. The Supreme Court issued an order temporarily enjoining the government from fully enforcing the requirement against a non-profit organization, and is scheduled to hear arguments on a case involving for-profit organizations in March 2014.Finally, though legislative repeal of the ACA in its entirety is unlikely, Congress has proposed certain legislative initiatives that may affect certain provisions of the ACA. In addition to the House measure introduced in October 2013 regarding the health insurer fee, in early October 2013 Congress passed and the President signed an appropriations act related to the suspension of the federal government debt ceiling and end of the federal government shutdown. This legislation required the Secretary of HHS to certify that exchanges have processes in place to verify the eligibility of all individuals who apply for a premium tax credit or cost-sharing reductions. Although the impact of this legislation is unclear, it could result in changes that make it more difficult for individuals to receive subsidies through the exchanges and negatively affect exchange enrollment. In addition, other legislative changes to the ACA have been suggested or introduced, such as with respect to delaying the collection of reinsurance fees, delaying implementation of the individual mandate, or delaying or repealing the tax on medical devices, although none of these provisions have been enacted. Additionally, federal regulators have delayed implementation of certain ACA requirements, including the requirement that large employers provide coverage to full-time employees or pay a penalty, along with related reporting requirements, and the requirement that federal and state small business health option program exchanges be able to facilitate employee choice among multiple health plans, due to operational concerns impacting both employers and health insurance issuers. Any such amendment or withholding of ACA funding by Congress, extended delays in the issuance of clarifying regulations and other guidance, delays in implementation, or other lingering uncertainty regarding the ACA could cause us to incur additional costs of compliance or require us to significantly modify or adjust certain of the operational and strategic initiatives we have already established. Such modifications may result in the loss of some or all of the substantial resources that have been and will be invested in the ACA implementation, require investment of additional resources and, depending on the nature of the modification, could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock.Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level, which could have an adverse impact on us.Various health insurance reform proposals have been considered at the state level, and more are likely to be considered in the future. Many of the states in which we operate have been implementing parts of the ACA and many states have added new requirements that are more exacting than the ACA's requirements. States may also mandate minimum medical loss ratios as described above, implement rate reforms and enact benefit mandates that go beyond provisions included in the ACA. For example, while proposed California legislation requiring prior approval of premium rates by the California Department of Insurance (the “CDI”) did not pass in 2011, an initiative measure in California to require prior approval for individual and small group rates by the CDI has qualified for the 2014 ballot. In addition, state exchange boards in California have the ability to limit the number of plans and negotiate the price of coverage sold on these exchanges and to limit the service areas in which QHPs in the exchanges may operate. These kinds of state regulations, among other things, and legislation could, among other things, limit or delay our ability to increase premiums in future years even where actuarially supported, and thereby could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. This also could increase the competition we face from companies that have lower health care or administrative costs than we do and therefore can price their premiums at lower levels than we can.Further, the interaction of new federal regulations and the implementation efforts of the various states in which we do business will continue to create substantial uncertainty for us and other health insurance companies about the requirements under which we must operate. Even in cases where state action is limited to implementing federal reforms, new or amended state laws will be required in many cases, and we will be required to operate under and comply with the various laws of each of the states in which we operate. States may disagree in their interpretations of the federal statute and regulations, and state “guidance” that is issued could be unclear or untimely. In the case of the ACA exchanges, we are required to operate under and comply with the regulatory authority of the federal government in addition to the regimes of each of the states that establish and administer their own exchanges. State exchange standards and processes related to areas such as enrollment, payment, certification standards, and other areas may differ from those of the federally facilitated exchanges. In some cases, it may not be clear whether federal or state guidelines apply, and federal and state guidelines may not align perfectly. For example, under currently proposed federal rules, the determination of what constitutes a “small group” for purposes of determining whether a plan participates in the risk 26adjustment program may differ from the determination used by states in enforcing compliance with the market reform requirements for small group health plans in some instances. If we do not successfully implement the various state law requirements of the ACA, including with respect to the exchanges, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.We cannot assure you that our participation in the ACA’s health insurance exchanges will be a success.The ACA requires the establishment of state-run or federally facilitated “exchanges” where individuals and small groups may purchase health coverage. The states of California, Oregon and Washington have received approval by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to operate state-run exchanges, and HHS operates the exchange in Arizona. We participate as Qualified Health Plans (“QHPs”) in the exchanges in California, Oregon and Arizona. Our continued participation in these exchanges and future participation in any other exchanges in the states in which we operate may be conditioned on the approval of the applicable state or federal government regulator, which could result in the exclusion of some carriers, including us, from the exchanges. From an operations standpoint, the initial open enrollment period for federal and state exchanges began on October 1, 2013 and will continue through March 31, 2014. While we have started the process of enrolling members in our QHPs, the exchanges have experienced certain implementation difficulties, and the timing and ultimate resolution of these issues remains uncertain. For example, there have been technical problems impeding individuals and small businesses from applying through the state and federal exchanges, hampering data collection and sharing efforts by regulators and health insurers and limiting consumer access to the online provider directory in California. As the enrollment process has advanced, state and federal regulators and exchange participants have engaged in discussions to troubleshoot various operational issues that have arisen with exchange rollout and implementation. Federal regulators have delayed certain functionalities and provided interim workarounds for other functionalities. Many of these technical fixes may put increased technical burdens on health insurers and increase our role in processing enrollments and plan changes and handling customer inquiries beyond what was initially anticipated. In addition, while we have adapted our products and sales practices to the new direct-to-consumer channel opened by the exchanges, on a going forward basis, the exchanges will also require us to market to and administer premium collection through a new population with which we have limited experience, which may present additional operational challenges.There are a number of other aspects of the exchanges that have yet to be fully implemented or where there are still outstanding questions, including procedures for ensuring the accuracy of data displayed on the exchange websites and how inaccuracies will be addressed and remedied, procedures for reconciling the enrollee information held by insurers with that held by the exchange, procedures for allowing individuals to change personal information or make changes to their plans based on special enrollment periods or changes in circumstances, procedures for agent, broker and “assister” participation in the exchanges, procedures for the calculation, timing and payment of federal subsidies for premiums and cost-sharing reductions, the determination of standards for privacy and security of data held by the exchanges and related entities, and several aspects of the operation of reinsurance, risk corridors and risk adjustment mechanisms. Many of the primary functionalities of the federally facilitated small business health option program (SHOP) through which small employers can obtain coverage have been delayed until 2015. For 2014, this has increased the burden on issuers providing SHOP plans in conducting enrollment and otherwise administering health plans. Furthermore, the processes by which the federally facilitated SHOP will conduct enrollment, collect premiums and disperse those premiums to issuers, and perform other administrative functions, as well as the standards for plans participating in the federally facilitated SHOP are subject to change. In response to these and other changes in the health care market over time, our competitors could modify their product features or networks, change their pricing relative to others in the market and adjust their mix of business within or outside the exchanges, or, as some of our larger competitors have done, exit certain segments of the market. Competitors seeking to gain a foothold in the changing market may also introduce pricing that we may not be able to match, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Finally, our exchange strategy relies heavily on our use of tailored network products and there is no assurance that our tailored network strategy will be successful over time. See “—The markets in which we do business are highly competitive. If we do not design and price our product offerings competitively, our membership and profitability could decline” for additional information regarding our tailored network strategy.Taken together, the exchanges’ operational issues, their untested nature, the evolving marketplace surrounding them and the responses of state and federal decisionmakers to these issues have created lingering uncertainty for us and other health insurers participating in the exchanges. For example, due in part to the technical implementation issues for the exchanges, CMS announced in November 2013 that it would not consider certain health plans in the individual and small group markets out of compliance with the ACA’s market reform requirements even if such requirements were not satisfied by the imposed deadline. CMS also encouraged relevant state regulators to adopt a similar transitional policy. Although the states in which we operate have not generally adopted such a transitional policy, states such as Arizona 27and California have allowed “early renewals”, whereby a plan is renewed for a policy year beginning in 2013 and extending into 2014. Such early renewals or other state or federal action that allows non-compliant plans to extend into 2014 and beyond may adversely impact the risk profile of the exchange population and result in adverse selection for QHPs, undermine the assumptions on which we based our 2014 premiums, and lead to uncertainty in our ability to predict costs and set premiums in future years. These decisions have demonstrated the ability of state and federal decisionmakers to revise the operational rules and regulations relating to the exchanges, in some cases with retroactive effect, in order to address future implementation or other difficulties, which may in turn impact the economics of the exchange marketplace and the success of our strategy with respect to the exchanges. The resultant uncertainty extends to certain aspects of the exchanges that remain under consideration, including among other things, the premium stabilization provisions described in further detail below, standards for listing on the exchanges, and the ability of individuals to make changes to health care plans for 2014 or take advantage of special enrollment periods or hardship exemptions. The fluid and novel nature of the exchange marketplace impacts our ability to predict exchange enrollment, premiums and costs, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. If we fail to effectively adapt our business strategy and operations to these evolving regulations and markets, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.If we do not effectively incorporate the ACA’s premium stabilization and other related provisions into our business, or these provisions are not successful in mitigating our financial risks, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.The ACA contains risk adjustment provisions applicable to the individual and small group markets that took effect in 2014 and will shape the economics of health care coverage both within and outside the exchanges. These risk adjustment provisions will effectively transfer funds from health plans with relatively lower risk enrollees to plans with relatively higher risk enrollees to help protect against adverse selection. The individual and small group markets represent a significant portion of our commercial business and the relevant amounts transferred may be substantial. To adapt to this new economic framework, we have dedicated significant resources and incurred significant costs to implement numerous strategic and operational initiatives both within and outside the exchanges that, among other things, require us to focus on and manage different populations of potential members than we have in the past. The success of these initiatives depends in large part on our ability to accurately assess our health plans’ risk and incorporate that into the risk adjustment calculus. This calculation relies primarily on encounter data to define a health plan’s average actuarial risk. The process of accurately collecting this data presents disadvantages to more heavily capitated health plans such as ours because providers receiving fixed fees from health insurers may not have the same incentive to provide accurate and complete encounter data with respect to services rendered when compared to providers under fee for service arrangements. This incentive problem may be particularly acute for health plans operating under the delegated HMO model, which is prevalent in our California health plans. Under this model, third party intermediaries assume responsibility for certain utilization management and care coordination responsibilities, including the collection of encounter data. We have been refining our health plan infrastructure and provider network to help ensure that we are accurately capturing this data, however, if we are unable to successfully execute this strategy, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, assuming we accurately capture complete encounter data, there is continued uncertainty about how HHS will validate this risk adjustment data, and some of the technical details about the “distributed data collection” approach that HHS will apply when operating risk adjustment are still being finalized. This data collection process will also be subject to HHS audit, and there remains uncertainty regarding the types of penalties that will be imposed and the criteria for imposing such penalties where an insurer fails to provide sufficient data to HHS. Uncertainty or delay in the data collection process and the evaluation of preliminary risk scores in the context of our competitive market may limit our ability to accurately predict receivables or payables under the program and adversely impact our ability to set premium rates for future periods.In addition to these permanent risk adjustment provisions, the ACA implements temporary reinsurance and risk corridors programs, which seek to ease the transition into the post-ACA market by helping to stabilize rates and protect against rate uncertainty in the initial years of the ACA. Because the final determination and settlement of amounts due or payable from these premium stabilization provisions will not occur until June 2015, depending on the amounts due or payable as a result of these provisions, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have made and are continuing to make significant efforts to design and implement a cohesive strategy with respect to the exchanges and these premium stabilization programs, but these programs are subject to risks inherent in untested initiatives and the relevant regulatory framework for the ACA remains subject to change and interpretation over time. For example, recent proposed rules have proposed changes to the rules regarding which entities are required to contribute to the reinsurance program, and HHS has only recently finalized changes to the rules regarding when a 28plan sold outside of the exchanges is considered a QHP subject to the risk corridors program. In addition, there have been recent discussions regarding legislation to repeal the risk corridors program or reduce its funding. Whether due to such regulatory uncertainty or otherwise, if these premium stabilization programs prove ineffective in mitigating our financial risks, including adverse selection risk, or we are unable to successfully adapt our strategy to any future changes in certain of our markets, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.A related provision of the ACA requires us to maintain certain minimum medical loss ratios, or “MLRs”. In the event we fail to maintain such minimum MLRs, we will be required to rebate ratable portions of our premiums to our customers annually. Certain state Medicaid programs, including with respect to the Medi-Cal expansion population, are imposing MLR requirements on Medicaid managed care organizations that generally require such plans to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their state customers if they cannot demonstrate they have met the minimum MLRs. In addition, beginning in 2014, commercial MLRs must now incorporate the effect of the aforementioned premium stabilization provisions for individual and small group markets. Due in part to the uncertainty with respect to these premium stabilization provisions, we may be unable to accurately predict our MLR rebates, which may cause meaningful disruptions in our market share and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Our profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict and control health care costs.A substantial majority of the revenue we receive is used to pay the costs of health care services and supplies delivered to our members. Many of these costs, including costs associated with physician and hospital care, new medical technology and prescription drugs, for example, are rising. The total amount of health care costs we incur is affected by the number and type of individual services we provide and the cost of each service. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to accurately predict health care costs and to manage future health care utilization and costs through product pricing criteria, utilization management, product design, medical management initiatives and negotiation of favorable professional and hospital contracts. Periodic renegotiations of hospital and other provider contracts, coupled with continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups, may result in increased health care costs or limit our ability to negotiate favorable rates. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement have also caused, and are expected to continue to cause, the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Additionally, there is always the possibility that adverse risk selection could occur when members who utilize higher levels of health care services compared with the insured population as a whole choose to remain with our health plans rather than risk moving to another plan, or, in the case of the exchanges, that members who elect to purchase products through the exchange will utilize higher levels of health care services than those in off exchange products. Moreover, the introduction of new populations with which there is limited cost experience, including through Medicaid expansion, the exchanges and the CCI, as well as the uncertain impact of premium stabilization provisions on the industry could adversely affect our ability to accurately predict or control health care costs. Any of these factors could cause our health care costs to be higher than anticipated and therefore cause our financial results to fall short of expectations.Other factors that may adversely affect our ability to predict and control health care costs and, as a result, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows include but are not limited to changes in utilization rates; demographic characteristics; catastrophes; large scale public health epidemics; terrorist activity; unanticipated seasonality; changes in provider reimbursement; fluctuations in medical cost trends; the regulatory environment, including, for example, the implementation of the ACA or other state or federal laws and their impact on our health care costs and our ability to change our premium rates; health care practices; the introduction of new therapies, treatments or drugs; inflation; new technologies; clusters of high-cost cases; and continued consolidation of physician, hospital and other provider groups. A significant category of our health care costs is the cost of hospital-based products and services. Factors underlying the increase in hospital costs include, but are not limited to, the underfunding of public programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare and the constant pressure that places on rates from commercial health plans, new technology, state initiated mandates, alleged abuse of hospital chargemasters, an aging population, changes in the economic environment and, under certain circumstances, relatively low levels of hospital competition caused by market concentration. Another significant category of our health care costs is costs of pharmaceutical products and services. Factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of drugs, utilization of new and existing drugs, changes in discounts and the impact of health care reform on pharmaceutical manufacturers through such requirements as increased fees. For example, on December 6, 2013, the Food and Drug Administration approved the drug Sovaldi for treatment of hepatitis C, which is currently priced at approximately $84,000 for a 12-week course of treatment. Due to the relatively high incidence of hepatitis C in 29populations we serve and a number of factors that may drive significant demand for the product, Sovaldi may cause a significant increase in our health care costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. As a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for our health plan products, our annual pre-tax income for 2013 would have been reduced by approximately $89 million. The inability to accurately forecast and manage our health care costs in all circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competitive and regulatory pressure to contain premium prices. If the premiums we charge are insufficient to cover our costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the challenge of controlling health care costs, we face competitive pressure to contain premium prices. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service, plan benefits and the quality and depth of provider networks, price has been and will continue to be a significant basis of competition. Any future increase in our premiums could result in the loss of members, particularly in light of continued economic pressures and the implementation of the ACA. Our premiums are set in advance of the actual delivery of services, and, in certain circumstances, before contracting with providers. While we attempt to take into account our estimate of expected health care and other costs over the premium period in setting the premiums we charge or bid, factors such as competition, new or changed regulations and other circumstances may limit our ability to fully base premiums on estimated costs. For example, certain of our competitors are not subject to the ACA's health insurer fee or are assessed at half the rate that we and other health insurers will pay. As a result, if, in the future we attempt to cover our increased costs from the health insurer fee through corresponding increases in our premium rates, we may not remain price competitive in the marketplace, including in the new health care exchanges. In addition, many factors may, and often do, cause actual health care costs to exceed those costs estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors include, but are not limited to, increased utilization rates, increasing medical cost trends, catastrophes, public health epidemics, terrorist activity, unanticipated seasonality, changes in insured population characteristics, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, including those included in the ACA or other state or federal laws. If we are unable to accurately estimate costs and set our premiums accordingly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our ability to increase our premiums may be restricted by law. For example, the ACA requires the establishment of a process for review of “unreasonable” premium rate increases. As part of this rate review process, certain insurers may be excluded from participating in the state-based or federally facilitated exchanges created by the ACA if the review determines that the insurer has demonstrated a pattern or practice of excessive or unjustified premium rate increases. The federal government and some states in which we do business have also required prior regulatory approval of premium rate increases and/or have subjected such increases to heightened scrutiny, such as third-party review. For example, the CDI and Department of Managed Health Care require a third-party actuarial review of health insurance carriers' and health plans' proposed premium rate increases to confirm compliance with applicable law, resulting in a potential delay in carriers' and plans' ability to implement rate increases. Further, in California, proponents of rate review have qualified an initiative measure for the November 2014 ballot that would, if approved, impose significant additional requirements on health plans relating to premium increases. These requirements and proposed changes have in the past and could in the future, among other things, lower the amount of premium increases we receive or extend the amount of time that it takes for us to obtain regulatory approval to implement increases in our premium rates. In recent years, certain of our competitors were asked by the Commissioner of the CDI to voluntarily delay implementation of scheduled premium increases to permit additional review by the CDI, which review led the carriers to reduce proposed rate increases. We have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, greater scrutiny by regulators of proposed increases to our premium rates. For additional detail on the impact of federal health care reform and potential additional changes in federal and state legislation and regulations on our ability to maintain or increase premium levels, see “—Federal health care reform legislation has had and will continue to have an adverse impact on the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations” (the “Health Care Reform Risk Factor”) and “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level, which could have an adverse impact on us.” Our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by significant disparities between the premium increases of our health plans and those of our major competitors or by limitations on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels.The ACA and other federal and state legislation and regulations require a reconciliation of premiums based on a final assessment of the relative medical risk a health plan incurs in the individual and small group market. Since the 30risk value is based on a health plan’s score relative to the industry and enrollment growth of new populations with limited cost experience under ACA, we may be required to accrue additional liabilities based on the risk profile of the overall population.The markets in which we do business are highly competitive. If we do not design and price our product offerings competitively, our membership and profitability could decline.We are in a highly competitive industry that is currently subject to significant changes from, among other things, legislative reform, business consolidations and new strategic alliances. Many of our competitors may have certain characteristics, capabilities or resources, such as greater market share, greater economies of scale, superior provider and supplier arrangements and existing business relationships, which give them an advantage in competing with us. These competitors include HMOs, PPOs, self-funded employers, insurance companies, hospitals, health care facilities and other health care providers. In addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future. The addition of new competitors in our industry can occur relatively easily and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. For example, the new developing marketplace created by the ACA's state-based and federally facilitated exchanges has and may continue to encourage new market participants and lead to increased competition in the individual and small group markets. There also is a risk that our customers may decide to perform for themselves functions or services currently provided by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, our providers and suppliers may decide to market products and services to our customers in competition with us.In addition, the response to the ACA over time by our existing competitors and related adjustments to their offerings, if any, could cause meaningful disruption in local health care markets in which we operate. For example, certain state-based and federally facilitated exchanges mandated by the ACA commenced operations in 2014. The developing regulatory structure for these exchanges continues to evolve and will shape the marketplace for individual and small group health plans both within and outside the exchanges. These changes will require us and our competitors to modify strategies and operations in response. Among other things, while we have adapted our products and sales practices to the new direct-to-consumer channel opened by the exchanges, on a going forward basis, the exchanges will also require us to market to and administer premium collection through a new population with which we have limited experience, which may present additional operational challenges. In response to these and other changes in the health care market over time, our competitors could modify their product features or benefits, change their pricing relative to others in the market and adjust their mix of business within or outside the exchanges, or even exit segments of the market. We may not be able to match our competitors' ability to support reduced premiums by virtue of any full or partial exemptions from the fees and taxes imposed by the ACA, or by making changes to their distribution arrangements, decreasing spending on non-medical product features and services, or otherwise adjusting their operating costs and reducing general and administrative expenses. New competitors seeking to gain a foothold in the changing market may also introduce product offerings or pricing that we may not be able to match, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively.In addition, while certain types of entities and benefits are exempt from the calculation of the health insurer fee, including, among others, government entities, certain non-profit insurers and self-funded plans, we are unable to take advantage of any significant exemptions due to our current mix of plans and product lines. Consequently, the health insurer fee will represent a higher percentage of our premium revenues than those of certain of our competitors who are able to exempt all or a portion of their premium revenues from the health insurer fee allocation. Moreover, some of our competitors may have greater economies of scale or a different mix of business, which, among other things, may lead to lower expense ratios and higher profit margins than we have. For additional discussion of how the ACA continues to affect the competitive landscape in which we operate, see the Health Care Reform Risk Factor above.In recent years, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity in our industry and in industries that act as our suppliers, such as the hospital, medical group, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. This activity may create stronger competitors and/or result in higher health care costs. Furthermore, since the adoption of the ACA, we have seen further provider consolidation, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to negotiate competitive rates. In addition, our contracts with government agencies, such as our Medicaid contracts, T-3 contract for the TRICARE North Region and MFLC contracts, are from time to time up for re-bid. If we were to lose any significant government contract to a competitor, or if we were to win the bid for such contract on less favorable terms, it could have an adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. See “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” for more information regarding our government contracts. To the extent that there is strong competition or that competition intensifies in any market, our 31ability to retain or increase our number of customers, our revenue growth, our pricing flexibility, our control over medical cost trends and our marketing expenses may all be adversely affected. Growth in our tailored network products and the continued development of innovative provider relationships are important parts of our business strategy. For example, we have been working to build alliances with provider groups and other stakeholders in the health care system through shared risk arrangements, including ACOs, that have seen increasing support as state and federal governments and the health care industry seek to improve the quality of care while controlling the costs of such care. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement and maintain these strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for future profitable growth in the post-ACA marketplace; that the products we have designed in collaboration with certain providers will be successful or developed within the time periods expected; or that the products that we offer will be preferable to similar products of our competitors. These tailored networks are based on provider networks that may not include all hospitals or medical professionals. We cannot control the capacity of these organizations to serve new membership coming from other health plans or as a result of the ACA. Failure to successfully implement these strategies may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we do not design and price our products appropriately and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we set rates too high or too low for highly competitive markets, if we lose membership in more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in less profitable products, if we do not provide satisfactory service levels, if membership or demand for our services does not increase as we expect or if membership or demand for our services declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our inability to estimate and maintain appropriate levels of reserves for claims may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reserves for claims are estimates of incurred costs based on a number of assumptions. An extensive degree of actuarial judgment is used in this estimation process and considerable variability is inherent in such estimates. The accuracy of these estimates also may be affected by external forces such as, for example, changes in medical claims submissions and payment patterns and medical cost trends. Included in the reserves for claims are estimates for the costs of services that have been incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) and for claims received but not processed. Our methodology for calculating these estimates is consistently applied from period to period, and our IBNR best estimate is made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. Any adjustments to the prior period IBNR best estimates are included in the current period. As additional information becomes known to us, we adjust our assumptions accordingly to change our estimate of IBNR. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the actual liability could differ materially from the amounts reserved. If such a revision in our estimates results in significant unfavorable development, it could adversely affect current period net income, profitability per enrolled member and, subsequently, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period. Our stock price could also be negatively impacted. If our actual claims liability is lower than estimated, it could mean that we set premium prices too high, which could result in a loss of membership. For additional information regarding our methodology in establishing our reserves for claims and other settlements, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Critical Accounting Estimates”.Our businesses are subject to laws and significant rules and regulations, which increases our cost of doing business and could impact our financial performance by restricting our ability to conduct business or adversely affecting our ability to grow our businesses. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal and state laws, rules, and regulations, including, but not limited to, financial requirements, licensing requirements, enrollment requirements and periodic examinations by governmental agencies. Our HMO and insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations relating to cash reserves, minimum net worth, premium rates, approval of policy language and benefits, appeals and grievances with respect to benefit determinations, provider contracting, utilization management, issuance and termination of policies, claims payment practices and a wide variety of other regulations relating to the development and operation of health plans. These laws, rules, and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than stockholders of managed health care companies such as Health Net. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals or licenses. The laws, rules, and regulations governing our business and interpretations of those laws, rules, and regulations are subject to frequent change, and there is no guarantee that legislative or regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering these laws, rules, and regulations to interpret them and to impose substantial fines or restrict our ability to 32do business when they believe violations or failures to meet standards or requirements have occurred. Regulatory agencies, such as the California Department of Managed Health Care, the California Department of Health Care Services, the CDI, CMS, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services' Office of Civil Rights and state departments of insurance, have the authority to impose substantial fines and/or penalties against us, require us to change how we do business and restrict our business activities. Certain of these agencies have done so in the past, and may impose substantial fines and/or penalties against us, require us to change how we do business and restrict our business activities in the future if they determine that we have not complied with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Further, such fines, penalties and restrictions may be more severe in circumstances in which regulatory agencies determine that we have repeatedly failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. See “—Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows” for further discussion on the impact of any fines, penalties or restrictions that may be imposed against us. As we have members in various states and are therefore subject to the regulatory oversight of multiple jurisdictions, we have been in the past, and could be in the future, subject to fines and/or penalties imposed by multiple regulatory agencies relating to the same incident. Existing or future laws, rules, and regulations, including the ACA and related health care reform initiatives could, among other things, force us to change how we do business and may restrict our revenue and/or enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs, and/or increase our exposure to liability with respect to members, providers or others. See the Health Care Reform Risk Factor above and “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level, which could have an adverse impact on us.” Further, we may be liable for violations of laws, rules and regulations by individual Health Net associates notwithstanding our internal policies and compliance programs. For example, see “—If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.” As a federal and state government contractor, we are subject to U.S. and state government oversight. The government may investigate our business practices and audit our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Depending on the results of those audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us. Under government procurement regulations and practices, a negative determination resulting from such claims could result in a contractor being fined, debarred and/or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time. In addition, we are subject to state and federal false claims laws that generally prohibit the submission of false claims for reimbursement or payment to government agencies. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Courts have imposed substantial fines and penalties against companies found to have violated these laws. We are also exposed to other risks associated with U.S. and state government contracting, including but not limited to dependence upon Congressional or legislative appropriation and allotment of funds, the impact that delays in government payments could have on our operating cash flow, and the general ability of federal and/or state government to terminate contracts with it, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In addition, delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain or maintain, governmental approvals, or moratoria imposed by regulatory authorities, could adversely affect our revenue or membership, increase costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. See “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.”Our participation in the duals demonstration portion of the California Coordinated Care Initiative in Los Angeles and San Diego Counties may prove to be unsuccessful for a number of reasons.The CCI, and the duals demonstration program in particular, is a model of providing health care that is new to regulatory authorities and health plans in the State of California. Our participation and success in the duals demonstration will be subject to a number of risks inherent in untested health care initiatives and new populations with limited cost experience. For example, there may be difficulties in the implementation of the demonstration that could detract from its acceptance by beneficiaries or increase our costs of participating in the demonstration. In addition, the CCI will require us to provide benefits with which we have limited operating experience, including but not limited to LTSS benefits. Our failure to successfully organize and deliver on this new model would negatively affect the operating and financial success of this business opportunity.Some of the risks involved in the CCI and our participation in the duals demonstration include:•Dual eligibles are generally among the most chronically ill individuals within each of Medicare and Medi-Cal, requiring a complex range of services from multiple providers. If we do not accurately predict the 33costs of providing benefits to dual eligibles or the rates under our agreement with CMS and DHCS prove to be inadequate, our participation in the CCI may prove to be unprofitable.•We have designed and substantially implemented certain modifications to our internal administrative and operations structure to meet the demands of the CCI, including, without limitation, hiring new staff to run programs, implementing systems modifications, establishing new provider networks and making arrangements to provide LTSS either directly or by subcontracting with other parties, with all such modifications in compliance with both Medicare and Medi-Cal regulatory regimes. While CMS has administered a readiness assessment and subsequently allowed us to market for the demonstration, certain modifications relating to our provision of LTSS remain in process. To the extent we are unable to adequately modify our operations to address the provision of LTSS, it may negatively impact our profitability in the CCI. •Our profitability in the CCI will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully provide and administer LTSS benefits, both directly and through subcontracting arrangements with third parties. Because we have limited operating experience in providing and administering these benefits, particularly with respect to cost management, there is no assurance that the arrangements we have made and are continuing to refine will be on favorable terms or that the information exchange between us and these third parties will allow us to efficiently manage member care, which may adversely affect our results of operations, particularly as our Medi-Cal membership increases through, among other things, Medicaid expansion.•Dual eligibles will have the option to opt out of the duals demonstration while retaining all of their Medi-Cal benefits under CCI, including LTSS, which may reduce or eliminate the inherent efficiencies of the duals demonstration portion of the CCI. In particular, while the provision and administration of LTSS benefits may increase Medi-Cal costs, successfully managing care for these LTSS recipients may generate equal or greater Medicare savings in the form of reduced costs for treatment for acute conditions and/or hospitalizations. However, if large numbers of dual eligibles opt out of the duals demonstration, we may be unable to capitalize on such potential efficiencies in the dual demonstration portion of the CCI, and as a result, we may not be able to maximize our investment in the CCI and our profitability with respect to our participation in the CCI may be adversely affected.•In each county, we will be offered as one of the health plans selected to participate in the CCI. Dual eligibles in each county will be able to select to receive benefits from any of the participating health plans. As a result of such competitive factors, we may not attract a satisfactory number of dual eligibles.•The duals demonstration is scheduled to begin in 2014, with active enrollment in Los Angeles and San Diego Counties to start on April 1, 2014, and is scheduled to conclude at the end of 2017. The commencement of the CCI, including the duals eligibles demonstration, has been subject to prior delay, and it is possible that the commencement of the CCI could be further delayed as a result of factors beyond our control. Also, after completion of the demonstration, the duals portion of the CCI may not continue and we may not be able to participate in the CCI if enacted in additional counties.•We are required to make required filings with, and obtain approvals from, regulatory authorities in order to meet the ongoing demands of the CCI. There can be no assurance that we will obtain these approvals on satisfactory terms, or at all.•We are subject to various other risks and uncertainties associated with participating in government programs such as Medicare and Medi-Cal, including, among other things, the ability of DHCS and CMS to terminate the agreement governing the demonstration without cause upon 180 days prior notice and the impact of changing legislation. For example, under current legislation, the D-SNP program will be terminated in January 2015, and all participating members will join the prospective dual eligible population. Any change to such legislation could have an adverse impact on our expected enrollment. See “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk”, “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” and “—Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows”.Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the business opportunity presented by the CCI, including the duals demonstration, will prove to be successful. Our failure to successfully adapt to the requirements of the CCI could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 34A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Approximately 52% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2013 relate to federal, state and local government health care coverage or counseling programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE and MFLC. Nearly all of the revenues in our Government Contracts reportable segment, which does not include Medicare and Medicaid related revenues, come from the federal government, either directly or as a sub-contractor for a federal government contract. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations” for more information regarding our reportable segments. In addition, a growing portion of our revenues for our Western Region Operations reportable segment, which includes Medicare and Medicaid related revenues, relates to government programs, and this portion will increase in 2014 due to, among other things, Medicaid expansion and the scheduled implementation of the dual eligibles demonstration. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-Western Region Operations Reportable Segment-California Coordinated Care Initiative” and “—Our participation in the duals demonstration portion of the California Coordinated Care Initiative in Los Angeles and San Diego Counties may prove to be unsuccessful for a number of reasons” for more information regarding our opportunities under the CCI and related risks. Due to this concentration of revenues, a significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our contracts with the government are generally subject to a highly structured competitive bid process and government discretion in the negotiation process, including with respect to performance requirements. If we fail to design and maintain programs attractive to our government customers, if we are not successful in winning new contracts or contract renewals on favorable terms, or if our existing contracts are terminated, our current government health care coverage or counseling programs business and our ability to expand these businesses could be materially and adversely affected. Under government-funded health programs, the government payor typically determines premium and reimbursement levels and generally has the ability to terminate our contract for convenience. Any reduction in premium or reimbursement levels by the government payor, such as Medicare Advantage payment rates as provided in the ACA, delays payments to us or increases premiums by less than our costs increase. If we are unable to make offsetting adjustments through supplemental premiums and changes in benefit plans, we could be adversely affected. In addition, the amount of government receivables set forth in our consolidated financial statements for our Government Contracts reportable segment represents our best estimate of the government's liability to us under TRICARE, MFLC, Patient Centered Community Care (“PC3”) and other government contracts, or amounts due us as a sub-contractor. These government receivables are generally estimates subject to government audit and negotiation, and there is an inherent uncertainty in government contracts based in large part on a vulnerability to disagreements with the government. As a result, the final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts for our Government Contracts reportable segment may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize in our consolidated financial statements. Medicare revenue that we record may also be subject to change due to risk adjustment reimbursement settlements. See “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk” for additional information about risks related to these risk adjustment reimbursement settlements. Moreover, with respect to the ACA's new premium stabilization provisions, the final determination and settlement of amounts due or payable relating to the 2014 calendar year will not occur until June 2015, which could have a material adverse impact our cash flows and results of operations.Contracts under our government programs are generally subject to frequent change, including but not limited to changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, expand or reduce the scope of the contract, reduce the revenue received by us or increase in our administrative or health care costs, as applicable, under such programs. An enrollment freeze or significant reduction in payments from government programs in which we participate could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Such changes may occur during re-competition of government contracts. The T-3 contract for our TRICARE business has one remaining one-year option period. The Department of Defense has notified us of its intent to exercise the remaining option period, which would extend our T-3 contract through March 31, 2015. The DoD has also informed us that it intends to request that we submit a proposal to add three additional one-year option periods to the T-3 contract. However, there can be no assurance that the Department of Defense will exercise the remaining option period under the contract, and if it is not exercised, our TRICARE business is opened up for rebidding and we are unable to secure a contract in the rebidding process, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. For additional information on our TRICARE operations, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Government Contracts Reportable Segment.” 35In addition, the reimbursement rates we receive from federal and state governments relating to our government-funded health care coverage programs may be subject to change. For example, on April 1, 2013, CMS announced final 2014 Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates for 2014 Medicare Advantage and Part D payments that we receive in connection with our participation in these programs. These payment rates represent reduced funding from the federal government compared to prior periods and adversely impacted our expected Medicare revenues for 2014. CMS announced proposed Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates for 2015 on February 21, 2014, which involved further reductions to payments. As another example of our changing reimbursement rates, the State of California’s decision to transition its Healthy Families program members into Medi-Cal effectively reduced our reimbursement rates, as the rates we receive for Medi-Cal members are lower than those we received through the Healthy Families program. Any significant reduction in the reimbursement rates that we receive in connection with our government-funded health care coverage programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly as our membership in and focus on government programs increases.Furthermore, on August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was enacted in order to increase the federal government's debt limit and reduce the federal deficit. The Budget Control Act established a 12-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the “Joint Select Committee”). The Joint Select Committee was tasked with proposing legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by at least $1.2 trillion for fiscal years 2012-21 by December 23, 2011. Because the Joint Select Committee did not propose such legislation by the proposed deadline, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions over fiscal years 2013-21 were to be automatically implemented beginning on January 1, 2013. The implementation of such reductions was delayed until April 1, 2013 as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, and the reductions are split evenly (in dollar terms) between defense and non-defense spending. Medicare is subject to automatic spending reductions, subject to a 2% cap. Certain other programs, including Medicaid benefits, are exempt from the sequestration cuts. All parts of the Medicare program, including Medicare Advantage, were subject to cuts, and these reductions have adversely impacted our Medicare Advantage MCR. In addition, reductions in defense spending could have an adverse impact on certain government programs in which we currently participate by, among other things, terminating or materially changing such programs, or by decreasing or delaying payments made under such programs. Preliminary budget legislation passed in December 2013 and an omnibus appropriations bill passed in January 2014 reduced or eliminated many of the sequestration cuts. However, the Medicare reductions (capped at 2%) were not eliminated and were extended for an additional two years, through 2023. In addition, legislation is currently being considered to repeal the “sustainable growth rate” formula that is used to calculate Medicare physician payments and replacing it with a new formula. While it is not currently clear what the details of any such legislation would be, such legislation, if finalized, could possibly make further cuts to Medicare payments or various related programs in order to offset the cost of the new payment formula.Federal and state governments could also choose to require benefits to be delivered to new populations of potential members or require us to deliver new services to existing populations. If we have limited cost experience with these new populations or services, we may not be able to accurately predict or adequately control the associated health care costs. For example, California began mandatory Medi-Cal enrollment of SPDs in June 2011, and the higher than expected claims experience in this population contributed in part to the higher than expected health care costs we reported in 2012. In addition, as part of the CCI, we will be required to expand our current Medi-Cal offerings to provide LTSS benefits to all our existing Medi-Cal members, including SPDs and those who do not participate in the duals demonstration portion of the CCI. We have limited operating experience in providing LTSS benefits. Finally, California also recently enacted a bill under which DHCS will require us to expand the list of required services to our Medi-Cal population. Under this legislation, effective as of January 1, 2014, we are required to administer certain mental health outpatient benefits to all our Medi-Cal members, including those newly eligible as a result of Medicaid expansion. If we are unable to effectively make such arrangements on favorable terms or otherwise fail to adequately administer these new benefits, including successfully managing the associated costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.In addition, Medicaid expansion in California and our entrance into Medicaid in Arizona have and will continue to significantly increase our Medicaid enrollment. This new population of members may have different characteristics than our existing Medicaid population. If we do not accurately predict the costs of providing benefits to this new population, fail to obtain suitable rates or otherwise fail to effectively incorporate this new population into our existing Medicaid business, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.Finally, we are also exposed to other risks associated with U.S. and state government contracting, including but not limited to the general ability of the federal and/or state government to terminate contracts with it, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance; and our dependence upon Congressional or legislative appropriation and allotment of funds and the impact that delays in government payments 36could have on our operating cash flow and liquidity. For example, due to the federal government shutdown in October 2013, the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense, Health Affairs, Defense Health Agency delayed reimbursement payments owed to us for underwritten claims under the T-3 contract for our TRICARE business. These reimbursement payments were ultimately received following the conclusion of the government shutdown, and the delay did not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. However, there can be no assurance that we will avoid similar payment delays in the future, which, if extended for any significant period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or liquidity. In addition, delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain or maintain, governmental approvals, or moratoria imposed by regulatory authorities, could adversely affect our revenue or membership, increase costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. Other changes to our government programs could affect our willingness or ability to participate in these programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk. Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business, accounting for approximately 27% of our total premium revenue in our Western Region Operations reportable segment in 2013 and an expected 22% in 2014. The ACA includes, among other things, provisions that significantly reduce the government’s Medicare payment rates. For more information on the risks associated with the ACA, see the Health Care Reform Risk Factor above. Provisions of the ACA, including the reduction in Medicare payment rates, may have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, all parts of the Medicare program, including Medicare Advantage, are subject to the risks of reduced government funding, including in connection with significant spending reductions in connection with the Budget Control Act of 2011. For example, on February 21, 2014, CMS announced proposed Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates for 2015, which reflected funding reductions from the prior year. For additional detail on these cuts and the potential effect on our Medicare business, see “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations”. The cumulative impact of reimbursement rate and funding reductions have had an adverse impact on our profitability, and any further significant reductions in the reimbursement rates that we receive in connection with our Medicare business could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly as our membership in and focus on government programs increases, including through the dual eligibles demonstration.If we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; if our Medicare operations are subject to sanctions or penalties; if we are not successful in winning contract renewals or new contracts; or if our existing contracts are terminated, our current Medicare business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, negatively impacting our financial performance. There are also specific additional risks under Title XVIII, Part D of the Social Security Act associated with our provision of Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits as part of our Medicare Advantage plan offerings. These risks include potential uncollectibility of receivables, inadequacy of pricing assumptions, inability to receive and process information and increased pharmaceutical costs, as well as the underlying seasonality of this business, and extended settlement periods for claims submissions. Our failure to comply with Part D program requirements can result in financial and/or operational sanctions on our Part D products, as well as on our Medicare Advantage products that offer no prescription drug coverage.In connection with our participation in the Medicare Advantage and Part D programs, we regularly record revenues associated with the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism employed by CMS. This mechanism is designed to appropriately reimburse health plans for the relative health care cost risk of its Medicare enrollees. Under the CMS risk adjustment methodology, all Medicare Advantage plans must collect and submit diagnosis code data from hospitals and physician providers to CMS by specified deadlines. CMS uses this diagnosis information to calculate the risk adjusted premium paid to Medicare Advantage plans throughout the year. For any given year, the final settlement of these risk adjustment payments is generally made in the third quarter of the following year. Because the recorded revenue associated with the risk adjustment reimbursement mechanism is based on our best estimate at the time, the actual payment we receive from CMS for risk adjustment reimbursement settlements may be significantly greater or less than the amounts we initially recognize on our financial statements. See “—Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows” for information on potential audits of the coding practices and provider documentation supporting the risk adjustment payments that we receive for our Medicare members. 37In addition, CMS developed the Medicare Advantage Star Ratings system to help consumers choose among competing plans, awarding between one and five stars to Medicare Advantage plans based on certain measures of quality. The Star Ratings are used by CMS to award quality-based payments to Medicare Advantage plans. Beginning with the 2014 Star Rating, (calculated in the Fall of 2013), Medicare Advantage plans that achieve a minimum of 4 Stars will receive a quality-based payment in 2015. Quality-based payments related to the 2011, 2012 and 2013 benefit years have been based on a Quality-Based Payment Demonstration. The methodology and measures used in the Star Ratings system are changed annually and Star Ratings thresholds are based on performance of Medicare Advantage plans nationally. For the 2014 Star rating (2015 payment year), our California HMO and Oregon PPO contracts with CMS were measured at 4.0 Stars, our Arizona HMO was measured at 3.5 Stars and our Oregon HMO and California PPO were measured at 3.0 Stars under the Star Ratings system. This will place approximately 80% of our current membership in 4.0 Star plans for 2014 that are expected to receive a quality-based payment in 2015. We are continuing to make efforts to improve our Star Ratings and other quality measures, but a failure to achieve a 4 Star Rating, and consequently to receive a quality-based payment in any year, would have an adverse effect on our revenue, income and reputation, and could hinder our ability to compete effectively in the Medicare marketplace.If we are unable to manage our general and administrative expenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The level of our administrative expenses can affect our profitability, and we may not be able to manage the level of our administrative expense in all circumstances. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, higher revenues and greater economies of scale than we do, which among other things, may allow them to more successfully manage their general and administrative expense ratios. While we attempt to effectively manage such expenses, including through the development of online functionalities and other projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, increases in staff-related and other administrative expenses may occur from time to time. These increases could be caused by any number of things, including difficulties or delays in projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, reliance on outsourced services, acquisitions and divestitures, business or product start-ups or expansions, such as, for example, our scheduled participation in the CCI and the health insurance exchanges, changes in business or regulatory requirements, including compliance with the ACA, ICD-10 and HIPAA regulations, or other reasons. In addition, any failure to appropriately manage our general and administrative expenses could require us to increase premium rates in order to cover our health care costs and general and administrative expenses. During recent years we have dedicated significant resources to implement programs designed to achieve general and administrative cost savings and improve our operational performance. As a part of these programs, we have and will continue to contract with key strategic partners in an effort to lower our cost structure and incremental costs and consolidate business and management operations. In addition, we are continuing to explore opportunities to address our scale issues including without limitation opportunities to outsource other business process functions. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies to reduce our general and administrative costs and improve our operational performance will be successful or achieve anticipated savings.In addition, in order to offset some of the reduced revenues from certain of our contracts, we continue our efforts to reduce, reallocate or eliminate certain overhead and other administrative expenses. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in making these cuts and adjustments at a pace that will maintain or increase our profitability.Our business is regionally concentrated in the states of California, Arizona and Oregon. Our business operations are primarily concentrated in three states: California, particularly Southern California, Arizona and Oregon. The majority of our Medicaid operations are in the state of California, with a high concentration of operations and members in Los Angeles County, and we now participate in the Medicaid program in Arizona. Our scheduled participation in the dual eligibles demonstration will further increase our concentration in Southern California, particularly Los Angeles County. Due to this geographic concentration, in particular in Southern California, we are exposed to the risk of a deterioration in our financial results if our health plans in these areas, in particular, Southern California, experience significant losses. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by economic conditions in these areas. If economic conditions in the state of California or in the other states in which we operate deteriorate, we may experience reductions in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if reimbursement payments from a state are significantly delayed, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For example, in the past, budget issues have led the State of California to delay certain of its monthly Medicaid payments to us. Any such 38irregularity in the timing of these payments in future periods may adversely impact our operating cash flow from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of such payments.Federal and state audits, reviews and investigations of us and our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have been and, in some cases, currently are, involved in various federal and state governmental audits, reviews and investigations. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by government agencies, state insurance and health and welfare departments and others pertaining to financial performance, market conduct and regulatory compliance issues. Such audits, reviews and investigations could result in the loss of licensure or the right to participate or enroll members in certain programs, or the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions, which could be substantial. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results, sanctions or penalties could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell our products and services. State attorneys general have become increasingly active in investigating the activities of health plans, and we have received in the past, and may continue to receive in the future, subpoenas and other requests for information as part of these investigations. We have, among other things, entered into consent agreements relating to, and in some instances have agreed to pay fines in connection with, several recent audits and investigations. Many regulatory audits, reviews and investigations in recent years have focused on the timeliness and accuracy of claims payments by managed care companies and health insurers. Our subsidiaries have been the subject of audits, reviews and investigations of this nature. Depending on the circumstances and the specific matters reviewed, regulatory findings could require remediation of any claims payment errors and payment of penalties of material amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We utilize claims submissions, medical records and other medical data as provided by health care providers as the basis for payment requests that we submit to CMS under the risk adjustment model for our Medicare Advantage contracts. CMS and the Office of Inspector General for HHS periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (“RADV”) audits of selected Medicare health plans, including ours, to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. Our Arizona health plan has been recently selected for such an audit. Such audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by CMS. In February 2012, CMS published a final RADV audit and payment adjustment methodology. The methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited, beginning with 2011 payments, using an extrapolation of the “error rate” identified in audit samples and, for Medicare Advantage plans, after considering a fee-for-service “error rate” adjuster that will be used in determining the payment adjustment. Depending on the error rate found in those audits, if any, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.We have been sanctioned in the past by CMS and have been advised that we will be subject to targeted monitoring and heightened surveillance and oversight by CMS going forward. Any future sanctions, fines or penalties against our Medicare operations may be more severe as a result of our past performance, particularly in circumstances in which CMS determines that we have repeatedly failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. If CMS were to impose financial or other penalties and/or sanctions on us, or terminate our existing Medicare contracts, this could have a material adverse effect on our Medicare business, our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See “—Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business and are subject to risk” for additional information about our Medicare programs and the associated risks.We contract with independent third party vendors and service providers who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. Violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business by such third parties, or governing our dealings with such parties, could subject us to additional audits, reviews and investigations and adverse effects from such audits, reviews and investigations. In addition, from time to time, government agencies investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with regulations applicable to government contractors, including but not limited to regular audits to enforce mandatory pricing arrangements. Government investigations of us, whether relating to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines and/or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from government programs or future government contracting, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “—We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties” for additional detail regarding risks associated with our relationships with third parties. 39We face risks related to litigation, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, we may incur material expenses in the defense of litigation and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or liquidity could be adversely affected if litigation expenses are greater than we project. We have been in the past, are currently, or may become in the future, subject to a variety of legal actions, including but not limited to claims related to the insurance industry in general and our business in particular, such as claims by members alleging failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, improper rescission, termination or non-renewal of coverage, and insufficient payments for out-of-network services. These legal actions also include claims brought against companies in general, including, but not limited to employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, including, without limitation, cases involving allegations of misclassification of employees and/or failure to pay for off-the-clock work, breach of contract actions, tort claims, fraud and misrepresentation claims, shareholder suits, including suits for securities fraud, intellectual property and real estate related disputes, and claims arising from or in connection with acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions, including but not limited to actions to block or unwind such transactions. For example, we currently are a party to certain putative class and collective actions relating to the alleged misclassification of certain independent contractors under our MFLC program. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further information on this matter. In addition, we incur and likely will continue to incur potential liability for claims by employer groups for return of premiums; claims by providers, including claims for withheld or otherwise insufficient compensation or reimbursement, claims related to self-funded business and claims related to reinsurance matters; and claims alleging information security incidents and breaches. For example, we currently are party to various putative class action lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in connection with our announcement that certain server drives containing protected health information or personally identifying information of certain individuals are unaccounted for in connection with the migration of our data center to a facility owned and operated by a third party vendor. These actions assert a variety of legal claims, including claims under the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act, and seek damages under that statute as well as other compensatory damages, restitution, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “—If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected” for additional information. The legal actions to which we are currently and in the future could be subject can also include allegations of fraud, misrepresentation, unfair or improper business practices and violations of state or federal antitrust laws and can include claims for punitive damages and various forms of injunctive relief. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against various managed care organizations, including us. In some of the cases pending against us, substantial non-economic or punitive damages are also being sought.We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty, and we have in the past and continue to incur significant expenses in the defense of litigation matters, including without limitation, substantial discovery costs. Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of the types of claims we face. There is a risk that we could incur substantial legal fees and expenses, including discovery expenses, in any of the actions we defend in excess of any amounts budgeted for defense. Plaintiffs' attorneys have increasingly used expansive electronic discovery requests as a litigation tactic. Responding to these requests, the scope of which may exceed the normal capacity of our historical systems for archiving and organizing electronic documents, may require application of significant resources and impose significant costs on us. In certain cases, we could also be subject to awards of substantial legal fees and costs to plaintiffs' counsel. While we currently have insurance policies that may provide coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation matters, there can be no assurance that coverage will be available for any particular case or liability. Insurers could dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded or settlement amounts. In addition, certain liabilities, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. Insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level that would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. The deductible on our errors and omissions (“E&O”) insurance has reached such a level. Given the amount of the deductible, the only cases which would be covered by our E&O insurance are those involving claims that substantially exceed our average claim values and otherwise qualify for coverage under the terms of the insurance policy. We regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, to determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best 40interests of the Company and its stockholders. We record reserves and accrue costs for certain significant legal proceedings which represent our best estimate of the probable loss, including related future legal costs, for such matters, both known and unknown. However, our recorded amounts might differ materially from the ultimate amount of any such costs. The costs associated with any settlement of or judgment relating to the various legal proceedings to which we are or may be subject from time to time, such as the proceedings described in Note 13, could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in a significant earnings charge or impact on our cash flow in any particular quarter. The costs associated with any settlement of or judgment relating to the various legal proceedings to which we are or may be subject from time to time, such as the proceedings described in Note 13, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or liquidity and may affect our reputation.We may not be able to manage our membership growth effectively.We expect that our membership may grow rapidly as a result of the changing health care environment including as a result of the implementation of the exchanges, the CCI and Medicaid expansion in California and Arizona. Such rapid growth in our membership could significantly strain our management and other resources. Our ability to manage the membership growth effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to simultaneously implement multiple, complex initiatives, to modify operational, financial and management information systems and functions on a timely basis and to attract, train, and retain skilled employees. In the event that we are unable to manage our membership growth effectively, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. See “—Federal health care reform legislation has had and will continue to have an adverse impact on the costs of operating our business and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations” for additional information.We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties.We currently contract with independent third party vendors and service providers who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. These third parties provide a material amount of services to us, and include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure and applications solutions providers, medical management providers, claims administration providers, billing and enrollment providers, third party providers of actuarial services, call center providers and specialty service providers. We are continuing to explore opportunities to address our scale issues including without limitation opportunities to outsource other business process functions, such as in the area of information technology. Our current and any future arrangements with third party vendors and service providers may make our operations vulnerable if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of our information and data. In addition, we may have disagreements with third party vendors and service providers regarding relative responsibilities for any such failures under applicable business associate agreements or other applicable outsourcing agreements. Any contractual remedies and/or indemnification obligations we may have for vendor or service provider failures may not be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses suffered as a result of any vendor's failure to satisfy its obligations to us or under applicable law. Our current and any future outsourcing arrangements could be adversely impacted by changes in the vendor's or service provider's operations, security posture or vulnerabilities, financial condition or other matters outside of our control. If we fail to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors and service providers, we could be subject to additional risk. If these vendor and service provider relationships were terminated for any reason, we may not be able to find alternative partners in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms, may be required to pay a termination fee, which may be significant, and may incur significant costs and/or disruption to our operations in connection with any such vendor or service provider transition. As a result, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, we may not fully realize the anticipated economic and other benefits from our outsourcing projects or other relationships we enter into with third party vendors and service providers, as a result of regulatory restrictions on outsourcing, unanticipated delays in transitioning our operations to the third party, vendor or service provider noncompliance with contract terms or violations of laws and/or regulations, or otherwise. This could result in substantial costs or other operational or financial problems or disputes that could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business or noncompliance with contract terms by third party vendors and service providers could increase our exposure to liability to our members, providers or other third parties, or sanctions and/or fines from the regulators that oversee our business. In turn, this could increase the costs associated with the operation of our business or have an adverse impact on our business and reputation. In addition, we currently outsource and may in the future outsource key services and functions to third parties, including companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to risks inherent in conducting 41business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions, and additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws and U.S. laws applicable to operations in foreign jurisdictions, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. We face a wide range of risks, and our success depends on our ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage our enterprise risk exposures. As a large company operating in a complex and highly-regulated industry, we encounter a variety of risks. The risks we face include, among others, a range of strategic, regulatory, competitive, financial, operational, information technology, information security, reputational, external and industry risks identified in this Risk Factors discussion. The third party vendors and service providers to which we outsource key functions are required to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations and contractual requirements. Any violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business, or the terms of our contracts, by third party vendors or service providers could increase our enterprise risk exposure. As we consider further outsourcing of key functions, this risk increases. We continue to devote resources to further develop and integrate our enterprise-wide risk management processes. Failure to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage or mitigate these risks could adversely affect our profitability, our ability to retain or grow business or adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships on competitive terms with the hospitals, provider groups and other providers that provide services to our members, our profitability could be adversely affected.We contract with hospitals, provider groups and other providers as a means to provide access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization and to monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments or take other actions, including litigation, which could result in higher health care costs, less desirable or uncompetitive products for customers and members, disruption to provider access or limited access for current members or to support growth, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate contract terms that are unfavorable to us or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market our products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. The continuing trend of consolidation of hospitals, provider groups and other providers may further enhance this risk, particularly if such consolidation involves any of the hospitals, providers or provider groups that we currently have under contract.As the health care environment has evolved, we have developed and are continuously working to monitor strategic provider relationships with respect to the new market driven by, among other things, the ACA, the CCI and other federal and state health care reforms, regulations and initiatives. Accordingly, our business strategy includes creating tailored network products and other customized customer solutions through, among other things, strategic provider relationships that help manage the cost of care. For example, our product portfolios and services include offerings such as SmartCareSM, ExcelCareSM and CommunityCareSM, which are recent collaborations with our provider partners. Through these types of arrangements, we offer tailored network product offerings served by more cost-effective physician groups and hospitals. Membership in our tailored network products was approximately 38% of total commercial risk membership as of December 31, 2013, compared with 35% as of December 31, 2012. For additional information on our tailored network products and innovative provider relationships, see “Item 1. Business-Segment Information-Western Region Operations Segment-Managed Health Care Operations.” Continued membership growth in our tailored network products and continued development of strategic provider relationships are important parts of our business strategy. In addition, we will need to finalize our provider network on satisfactory terms to support our participation in the CCI, including the provision of LTSS benefits for dual eligibles and other individuals, a service that we have not previously provided or managed. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives, that the products we design in collaboration with certain providers will be successful or developed within the time periods expected, or the products that we offer will be preferable to similar products of our competitors. For additional discussion of the risks associated with our participation in the CCI, see “—Our participation in the duals demonstration portion of the California Coordinated Care Initiative in Los Angeles and San Diego Counties may prove to be unsuccessful for a number of reasons.” Failure to successfully implement these strategic initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 42We contract with professional providers in California for HMO primarily through capitation fee arrangements. Generally, under a capitation fee arrangement, we pay a provider group a fixed amount per member per month and the provider group accepts the risk of the frequency and cost of member utilization of professional services, and in some cases, institutional services. Provider groups that enter into capitation fee arrangements generally contract with primary care physicians, specialists and other secondary providers to provide services. In addition, we frequently delegate responsibility for certain functions such as claims payment or utilization management to these providers under a "delegated HMO" model. The inability of provider groups to properly manage costs under capitation arrangements can result in their financial instability and the termination of their relationship with us. A provider group's financial instability or failure to pay specialists or secondary providers for services rendered could be exacerbated by the current economic conditions, and could lead specialists or secondary providers to demand payment from us, even though we have made our capitated payments to the provider group. Health Net will be relying on our delegated, capitated physician groups to disperse this additional payment to their eligible providers. Depending on state law, we could be liable for such claims. In California, for instance, although legal precedent to date has held that health plans are normally not liable for unpaid provider claims under these circumstances, there can be no assurance that the law will not change, or that we will not be found liable for unpaid provider claims in the future. There can also be no assurance that providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with specialists or secondary providers, the failure of any of which could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. In addition, certain provisions of the ACA, including for example, the risk adjustment program, may make our existing provider fee arrangements less successful in certain of our market segments. The risk adjustment program defines a health plan's average actuarial risk and subsequently determines such health plan's risk adjustment payment allocation based on the collection of encounter data from providers. This structure puts more heavily capitated health plans such as ours at a disadvantage because providers receiving fixed fees from health insurers do not have the same incentive to provide accurate and complete encounter data with respect to services rendered when compared to providers under fee for service arrangements. This incentive problem is particularly acute under the delegated HMO model, which is prevalent in our California health plans. Under this model, third party intermediaries assume responsibility for certain utilization management and care coordination responsibilities, including the collection of encounter data. As a result, we have been working with providers to enhance our traditional capitation arrangements to help better align our and our providers' interests in capturing accurate and complete encounter data and determining an accurate average actuarial risk. In the case of our CommunityCare product offering we have a hybrid fee arrangement, which includes direct fee for service (FFS) payment to certain providers. For additional detail on the risk adjustment program and how the ACA and related proposals and initiatives are changing the health care landscape, see the Health Care Reform Risk Factor above, “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level, which could have an adverse impact on us.” There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully agree with providers to implement these modifications or manage health care costs efficiently under an FFS payment model. Failure to successfully implement this strategy may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our dependence on capitated provider groups is substantial in our Western Region Operations reportable segment. Approximately 71% of our Western Region Operations members were enrolled with capitated provider groups as of December 31, 2013. Our use of tailored network products also places a greater emphasis on our relationships with certain capitated provider groups, as tailored network products restrict covered members' access to certain physician groups. If these capitated provider groups cannot provide comprehensive services to our members in tailored network products or encounter financial difficulties, it could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to members and our operations. In addition, the use of tailored network products could create an increased risk of out of network claims issues, which could result in higher medical costs to us.The provider groups that we contract with are also required to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. The inability of a provider group to pass compliance audits or otherwise maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations may cause us to terminate a contract with a provider or assume responsibility for the noncompliant functions, such as claims payment or utilization management. Furthermore, violations of, or noncompliance with, applicable laws and/or regulations or contract terms by providers who perform delegated functions for us could increase our exposure to liability to our members or sanctions and/or fines from the regulators that oversee our business, among other things. If we fail to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of these delegated entities, we could be subject to additional risk. For additional information, see “—We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties.” Some providers that render services to our members and insureds who have coverage for out-of-network services, or who obtain out-of-network emergency services, are not contracted with our plans and insurance companies. 43In certain cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and the plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider; rather, the plan's obligation is to reimburse the provider based upon the terms of the member's plan or as otherwise required by law. The amount of provider reimbursement that a plan is obligated to pay in certain cases is established by a standard set forth in the plan that is not clearly translated into dollar terms, such as “maximum allowable amount” or “usual, customary and reasonable.” However, in other instances such reimbursement requirements are defined by statute or regulation and such amounts may, in certain instances, be greater than those calculated according to the plan standards. For example, the ACA's formula for calculating the minimum amount that a plan is required to reimburse a provider for out-of-network emergency services will likely result in increased reimbursements to providers for such services. These statutory requirements related to provider reimbursements may increase our health care costs, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, providers who render out-of-network services may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the plan or balance bill our member. Regulatory authorities in various states may also challenge the manner in which we reimburse members for services performed by non-contracted providers. As a result of litigation or regulatory activity, we may have to pay providers additional amounts or reimburse members for their out-of-pocket payments. The uncertainty about our financial obligations for such services and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of our original payments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Physicians and other professional providers, provider groups and hospitals that contract with us have in certain situations commenced litigation and/or arbitration proceedings against us to recover amounts for which they allege we are liable, including amounts related to unpaid claims and amounts they allege to be underpayments due to them under their contracts with us. We are currently a party to matters of this nature and could face additional claims or be subject to litigation and/or arbitration proceedings in the future in connection with similar matters. We believe that provider groups and hospitals have become increasingly sophisticated in their review of claim payments and contractual terms in an effort to maximize their payments from us and have increased their use of outside professionals, including accounting firms and attorneys, in these efforts. These efforts and the litigation and arbitration that result from them could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Adverse economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The U.S. economy continues to experience slow economic growth with concerns about high unemployment rates, government debt, geopolitical issues and other factors continuing to negatively impact expectations. These events could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.These market conditions expose us to a number of risks, including risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers. In light of the substantial uncertainty surrounding the ultimate impact of the ACA and related state health care reform proposals, how the implementation of these new requirements will affect these risks remains unclear. If our customer base experiences cash flow problems or other financial difficulties, it could, in turn, adversely impact membership in our plans. For example, our customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, or may make changes in the mix of products purchased from us. If our customers experience financial issues, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business, and in order to compete effectively in our markets, we also must deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers and that are designed and priced properly and competitively. Prior to the effective date of the ACA's guaranteed issue requirement, adverse economic conditions may also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. A significant decline in membership in our plans and the inability of current and/or potential customers to pay their premiums as a result of unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other providers and, as a result, could adversely affect our contracted rates with such parties and increase our medical costs.High unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs and the profitability of our operations. If economic conditions continue to be difficult and unemployment rates continue to be high, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.As of December 31, 2013, our Medi-Cal membership was approximately 1.1 million members, and it is expected to increase in 2014. Our Medi-Cal membership will increase as a result of Medicaid expansion and our participation in the CCI. However, the State of California has a recent history of budget deficits. Continued challenging economic 44conditions, another economic downturn or continued government efforts to contain medical costs and health care related expenditures could continue to adversely affect state and federal budgets, including California's, resulting in reduced or delayed reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government-funded health care coverage programs, including Medicare and Medi-Cal or reimbursements or payments in these programs that do not keep pace with our cost trends. For additional discussion on budget issues at the federal level and the potential risks to our business, see “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” If rate cuts are implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government, it could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. This risk may be amplified as our Medi-Cal membership may increase through, among other things, potential Medicaid expansion in California and our participation in the CCI. However, the impact of such cuts could be limited since they would need to be reconciled with minimum payment rates for primary care physicians dictated by the ACA for 2013 and 2014. See “—A significant reduction in revenues from the government programs in which we participate or other changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” for additional information regarding proposals to reduce California's Medi-Cal provider reimbursement rates and other state and federal budgetary matters that may impact us. In addition, continued state and federal budgetary pressures could cause new or higher levels of assessments or taxes for our commercial programs, such as surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims or premium taxes on insurance companies and HMOs, and could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, any enrollment freeze or significant delay in reimbursement payment from government programs in which we participate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. For example, in the past, budget issues have led the State of California to delay certain of its monthly Medicaid payments to us. Any such irregularity in the timing of these payments in future periods may adversely impact our operating cash flow from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of such payments.If we fail to effectively maintain our information management systems, it could adversely affect our business.Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in, among other things, pricing our services, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims, billing our customers on a timely basis and identifying accounts for collection. Our customers and providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verification, claims status and other information. We have different information systems for our various businesses and these systems require the commitment of significant resources for continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and evolving industry and regulatory standards. We have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity also requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture. We are in the process of reducing the number of systems that we operate. Any difficulty or unexpected delay associated with the transition to or from information systems, including in connection with the decommissioning of a system or the implementation of a new system; any inability or failure to properly maintain information management systems; any failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems, including to renew technology, maintain technology currency, keep pace with evolving industry standards or eliminate redundant or obsolete applications; or any inability or failure to successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs, could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, regulatory or other legal or compliance problems, significant increases in administrative expenses and/or other adverse consequences. If for any reason there is a business continuity interruption resulting in loss of access to or availability of data, we may, among other things, not be able to meet the full demands of our customers and, in turn, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely impacted. In addition, we obtain significant portions of our systems-related and other services and facilities, including our data center, from independent third parties and are considering expanding our outsourced information technology arrangements. This makes our operations vulnerable to adverse effects if such third parties fail to perform adequately. See “—We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties.” CMS adopted a new coding set for diagnoses, commonly referred to as ICD-10, which significantly expands the number of codes utilized. The new ICD-10 coding set is currently required to be implemented by October 2014. We will be required to incur additional expenses to implement and support the new ICD-10 coding set. If we have not adequately implemented the requirements of the ACA and ICD-10 within the time period required, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. 45We also face challenges with respect to our implementation and support of the requirements of the ACA. Because federal and state regulators are still in the process of determining the final rules and regulations relating to the implementation of the ACA, there remains substantial uncertainty with respect to these requirements, including, but not limited to rules and regulations related to the state-based and federally facilitated exchanges, the assessment and collection of the health insurer fee and the reinsurance, risk adjustment and risk corridors programs. Among other things, we have been required to define and implement new billing and payment capabilities and support new requests from third parties and government agencies for data collection and reporting. These additional demands have required and are continuing to require us to make significant systems changes, including developing, investing in, configuring, installing and monitoring the performance of new products and technology. The implementation of these changes has required and will continue to require the expenditure of material resources. See the Health Care Reform Risk Factor and “—Various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level, which could have an adverse impact on us” for further information regarding the ACA and the challenges we continue to face in implementing its provisions. As the requirements of supporting our businesses evolve over time under the ACA's dynamic marketplace, there can be no assurances that we will be able to make the necessary systems changes or other modifications necessary to successfully meet such demands. If we do not successfully respond to such demands in a timely manner, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.We must comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. The Department of Health and Human Services has regulations in place under HIPAA relating to the privacy and security of protected health information (“PHI”). These regulations, as amended, require health plans, clearinghouses and providers to, among other obligations: comply with various requirements and restrictions related to the use, disclosure, storage, and transmission of PHI; adopt rigorous internal policies and procedures to safeguard PHI; and enter into specific written agreements with business associates that receive, use and/or create PHI on our behalf. HIPAA also established significant civil and criminal sanctions for violations. These regulations expose us to liability for, among other things, violations of the regulations by our business associates, including the third party vendors involved in our outsourcing projects. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”) of 2009 expanded HIPAA's requirements for security and privacy safeguards, including improved enforcement, additional limitations on use and disclosure of PHI and additional potential penalties for violations, and imposed notice obligations in the event of a breach of unsecured PHI. The HITECH Act has been implemented on a rolling basis through subsequent rulemaking. On January 17, 2013, the Office of Civil Rights (“OCR”) of HHS issued the omnibus final rule on HIPAA privacy, security, breach notification requirements and enforcement requirements under the HITECH Act, and a final regulation for required changes to the HIPAA Privacy Rule for the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act. The omnibus final rule became effective on March 26, 2013, with an applicable compliance date of September 23, 2013. Although our contracts with our business associates provide for protections of PHI by our business associates, we may have limited control over the actions and practices of our business associates. Compliance with HIPAA and state and federal privacy and security laws and regulations has resulted in and may in the future result in significant costs to us due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by us or our business associates. See also “—If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.”If we fail to comply with requirements relating to patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain the privacy and security of such information, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable health information or data, including PHI, by our businesses are regulated at the federal and state levels, and in some cases are subject to contractual requirements. Despite the privacy and security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and contractual requirements, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party vendors and service providers, are vulnerable to privacy and security incidents including, but not limited to, computer hacking, breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses or other forms of cyber attack, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. For example, in January 2011, we were notified by a third party vendor that certain of our server drives could not be accounted for in connection with the migration of our data center to a facility owned and operated by our third party vendor. We reported the loss to authorities and notified affected individuals. We recently received preliminary approval of a settlement agreement with respect to various 46putative class action lawsuits brought in federal and state courts on behalf of individuals who claim to have been affected by this incident and the matter remains under review by certain regulatory agencies. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “—We face risks related to litigation, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, we incur material expenses in the defense of litigation and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or liquidity could be adversely affected if litigation expenses are greater than we project” for additional information.A party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could, among other things, misappropriate or misuse sensitive or confidential information (including but not limited to PHI and other member information), user information or other proprietary information, cause significant interruptions in our operations and cause all or portions of our website to be unavailable. Internal or external parties may attempt to circumvent our security systems, and we have experienced external attacks on our network, such as, for example, reconnaissance probes, denial of service attempts, malicious software injection attacks and phishing attacks in the past. We have expended significant resources to protect against such attacks, detect if and when attacks occur, respond to these attempted attacks and recover the enterprise to regular operations, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Any reductions in the availability of our website could impair our ability to conduct our business and adversely impact our members during the occurrence of any such incident. Because the techniques used to circumvent security systems can be highly sophisticated and change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all possible techniques or implement adequate preventive measures for all situations. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or data security laws or any security incident or breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us, one of our business associates or another third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations, including but not limited to: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; litigation; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; requirements that we provide notices, credit monitoring services and/or credit restoration services or other relevant services to impacted individuals; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. Additionally, the costs incurred to remediate any data security or privacy incident could be substantial. We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect our operations. Our indebtedness includes $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2017. Our Senior Notes payable balance was $399.3 million as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we have a $600 million five-year revolving credit facility that expires in October 2016. As of December 31, 2013, we had $100.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. For a description of our Senior Notes and our revolving credit facility, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources-Capital Structure.” We may incur additional debt in the future. Our existing indebtedness, and any additional debt we incur in the future through drawings on our revolving credit facility or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund stock repurchases, working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We continually evaluate options to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors. In the event we need to access the credit markets, including to refinance our debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. 47Downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by nationally recognized ratings agencies are increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and managed care companies. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings also are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. In addition, our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Rating agencies review our ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each rating agency's independent opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders and other factors, and are subject to change. Potential downgrades from ratings agencies, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and substantially all of our cash flow is generated by our subsidiaries. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends and maintenance of minimum levels of capital. As a holding company, our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to pay our debt depends, in part, on the amount of cash that we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries' ability to make any payments to us will depend on their earnings, business and tax considerations, legal and regulatory restrictions and economic conditions. Under California’s Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (also known as the Knox-Keene Act), our subsidiaries that are licensed under the Knox-Keene Act must comply with certain minimum capital or tangible net equity (“TNE”) requirements ranging up to 130% of a specified minimum TNE for larger and older licensees such as Health Net of California. In addition, each of our subsidiaries regulated under the Knox-Keene Act have agreed to certain undertakings to the Department of Managed Health Care, restricting dividends and loans to affiliates, to the extent that the payment of such would reduce its TNE below 130% of the minimum requirement, or reduce its cash-to-claims ratio below 1:1. In addition, in certain states our regulated subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements, known as RBC. These laws require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance in their state of domicile and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject certain of our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including increased reporting and/or state supervision. In addition, in most states, we are required to seek prior approval before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts as determined by the state’s formula. If our regulated subsidiaries are restricted from paying us dividends or otherwise making cash transfers to us, it could have material adverse effect on our results of operations and free cash flow. For additional information regarding our regulated subsidiaries' statutory capital requirements, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Statutory Capital Requirements.” The value of our intangible assets may become impaired. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $579.7 million as of December 31, 2013, representing approximately 15 percent of our total assets and 36 percent of our consolidated stockholders' equity at December 31, 2013. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding estimated fair value including assumptions and estimates related to future earnings and membership levels based on current and future plans and initiatives, long-term strategies and our annual planning and forecasting processes, as well as the expected weighted average cost of capital used in the discount process. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets, we may be required to record impairment losses against income. Any future evaluations resulting in an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially impact our results of operations and stockholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in stockholders' equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. From time to time, we divest businesses that we believe are less of a strategic fit for the company or do not produce an adequate return. Any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 48Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Critical Accounting Estimates—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for further discussion of our procedures related to goodwill and other intangible assets.The value of our investment portfolio and our goodwill could be adversely impacted by varying economic and market conditions which could, in turn, have a negative effect on our results of operations and stockholders' equity. Our investment portfolio is comprised primarily of available-for-sale investment securities such as interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities. As of December 31, 2013, our available-for-sale investment securities were approximately $1.63 billion. The value of fixed-income securities is highly sensitive to fluctuations in short- and long-term interest rates, with the value decreasing as such rates increase and increasing as such rates decrease. These securities may also be negatively impacted by illiquidity in the market. We closely monitor the fair values of our investment securities and regularly evaluate them for any other-than-temporary impairments. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the principal amount invested.The current economic environment and the volatility of capital markets could negatively impact the liquidity of investments, such as the debt securities we hold, and a worsening in these markets could have additional negative effects on the liquidity and value of our investment assets. In addition, such uncertainty has increased the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Over time, the economic and capital market environment may further decline or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding the impairment of certain investments. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. There is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding our investment portfolio. In addition, our regulated subsidiaries are also subject to state laws and regulations that govern the types of investments that are allowable and admissible in those subsidiaries' portfolios. There can be no assurance that our investment assets will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our stockholders' equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our stock price experiences significant fluctuations or if our market capitalization materially declines, we could be required to take an impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill. If we were required to take such a charge, it would be non-cash and would not affect our liquidity or financial condition, but could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge was taken. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. In 2012, the per share value of our common stock decreased by 20.1% and in 2013, the per share value of our common stock increased by 22%. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will vary in a manner consistent with the variation in the Standard & Poor's 400 Mid-Cap Index of which our common stock is a component. The market prices of our common stock and the securities of certain other publicly-traded companies in our industry have shown significant volatility and sensitivity in response to many factors, including the ACA and health care reform generally, public communications regarding managed care, legislative or regulatory actions, political developments, litigation or threatened litigation, health care cost trends, proposed premium increases, pricing trends, reductions in government reimbursement, competition, earnings, proposed changes in or the introduction of new government programs or initiatives, developments with respect to the CCI, receivable collections or membership reports of particular industry participants, and market speculation about or actual merger and acquisition activity. Additionally, adverse developments affecting any one of the companies in our sector could cause the price of our common stock to weaken, even if those adverse developments do not otherwise affect us. There can be no assurances regarding the level or stability of our share price at any time or the impact of these or any other factors on our stock price.Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and otherwise adversely affect our business. 49Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry and health care reform could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Managed health care companies have received and continue to receive negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. For example, the Company and the managed health care industry have been subject to negative publicity surrounding premium rate increases and government investigations into the industry and our own business practices. Such risks may be exacerbated in the event we and other companies in our industry raise premium rates by more than has been done in recent years to price for the expanded benefits required by, and the fees, taxes and assessments imposed by, the ACA or to respond to any increase in medical cost trends. In addition, health care, health care reform and its implementation and related health care reform proposals have been and are expected to continue to be the subject of intense media attention and political debate. Such political discourse can often generate publicity that portrays managed care in a negative light. Our marketing efforts may be affected by the amount of negative publicity to which the industry has been subject, as well as by speculation and uncertainty relating to merger and acquisition activity among companies in our industry. Speculation, uncertainty or negative publicity about us, our industry or our lines of business could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products or services, require changes to our products or services, or stimulate additional legislation, regulation, review of our practices or those of the industry or litigation that could adversely affect us.Managing executive succession and retention is critical to our success. If we are unable to manage the succession of our key executives, it could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on retaining existing key executives and attracting additional qualified executives to meet current and future needs. We face intense competition for qualified executives, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such executives. Although we have succession plans in place and have employment arrangements with our key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these key executives will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to attract and retain suitable successors. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team.Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate the profitability realized or that we expect to be realized by our existing businesses and operations. From time to time we review, from a strategic standpoint, potential acquisitions and divestitures in light of our core businesses and growth strategies. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contractual terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. For divestitures, success may also be dependent upon efficiently reducing general and administrative or other functions for our remaining operations. In the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer's inability to fulfill these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. As a seller, we may have significant continuing indemnification, administrative services or other obligations to the buyer. Potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, significant post-closing obligations, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our $600 million revolving credit facility due in October 2016 requires us to comply with various covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends, make investments or other restricted payments, sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our assets and engage in other activities. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to comply with a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure-Revolving Credit Facility” for further details regarding our revolving credit facility. The restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. In addition, any failure by us to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility and, in some circumstances, under the indenture governing our Senior Notes, which, in any case, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 50We depend, in part, on independent brokers and sales agents to market our products and services, and recent regulatory investigations have focused on certain brokerage practices, including broker compensation arrangements and bid quoting practices. We market our products and services both through sales people employed by us and through independent sales agents. Independent sales agents typically do not work with us on an exclusive basis and may market health care products and services of our competitors. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent sales agents and we cannot assure you that these agents will continue to market our products at a reasonable cost. Although we have a number of sales employees and agents, if key sales employees or agents or a large subset of these individuals were to leave us, our ability to retain existing customers and members could be impaired.The ACA includes broker and agent commissions as administrative expenses for purposes of calculating the minimum medical loss ratio. As a result, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs of health insurers, and there is pressure to make changes to existing commission structures for brokers and agents. For example, some of our competitors have reduced the commissions payable to brokers and agents for sales in the large group, small group and individual markets, and we have implemented similar reductions in those markets in California and Arizona. In addition, the implementation of certain provisions of the ACA, including the exchanges, will open new distribution channels to customers and may reduce or otherwise modify the roles that brokers play in our marketing and sales practices. Our relationships with brokers and agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our business practices to address these pressures and changing roles, including potential reductions in commissions and changes in the treatment of consulting fees.There have been a number of investigations and enforcement actions against insurance brokers and insurers over the last several years regarding allegedly inappropriate or undisclosed payments made by insurers to brokers for the placement of insurance business. We could be sanctioned as a result of unlawful acts by our agents or brokers. In addition, investigations by state attorneys general, CMS and other regulators, as well as regulatory changes initiated in several states in response to allegedly inappropriate broker conduct and broker payment practices, could result in changes in industry practices or negative publicity that could have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products. We are dependent on our ability to recruit, manage, enable and retain a skilled and talented workforce. Our products and services and our operations require a large number of employees. As of December 31, 2013, we employed 7,565 individuals on a full-time basis and 94 individuals on a part-time or temporary basis. It is critical that we recruit, manage, enable and retain talent to successfully execute our strategic objectives, which requires aligned policies, a positive work environment and a robust succession and talent development process. Further, particularly in light of the changing health care environment, we must focus on building employee capabilities to help ensure that we can meet upcoming challenges and opportunities. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit, manage, enable and retain talent and meet upcoming challenges and opportunities. In addition, the impact of the external or internal environment or other factors on employee morale, enablement and engagement could also significantly impact the success of the Company. Our forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties. Our performance may not be consistent with these forecasts and forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and, as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. The achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this report, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the uncertainties associated with federal and state health care reform, challenging economic conditions and our potential participation in new government programs or the provision of new services and/or benefits to new populations, among other things, may make it particularly difficult to forecast our future performance. As a result, we cannot assure that our performance will meet any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire mix of publicly available historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting us, our services, 51and our industry when evaluating our forecasts and other forward-looking statements relating to our operations and financial performance.It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could decrease the value of your shares of our common stock. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. In addition, federal antitrust laws apply to us, and any change in control of our state health plans or health insurance companies also would require the approvals of the applicable regulatory agencies in each state in which we operate. In addition to the Rights Agreement, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of the Company that our stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Large-scale public health epidemics and/or terrorist activity could cause us to incur unexpected health care and other costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An outbreak of a pandemic disease and/or future terrorist activities, including bio-terrorism, could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. Depending on the government's actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and insurance companies, a large-scale public health epidemic or future acts of bio-terrorism could lead to, among other things, increased utilization of health care services and the associated increased health care costs due to increased in-patient and out-patient hospital costs, disruption of information and payment systems and the cost of any anti-viral or other medication used to treat affected people. Disasters, including earthquakes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disasters such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornados, power losses, virus outbreaks, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our members and providers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan that is intended to provide us with the ability to recover our critical information technology systems in the event of a natural disaster utilizing various alternate sites provided by a national disaster recovery vendor. We also have business continuity plans that provide for the processes and resources necessary to operate during and following a disaster. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Under the agreements that govern the Northeast Sale, we have retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the acquired business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement for the Northeast Sale, we are required to indemnify the Buyer and its affiliates for all pre-closing liabilities of the acquired business and for a broad range of excluded liabilities, including liabilities arising out of the acquired business incurred through the winding-up and running-out period of the acquired business. The Stock Purchase Agreement does not limit the amount or duration of our obligations to the Buyer and its affiliates with respect to these indemnities. As a result, in the event that the amount of these liabilities was to exceed our expectations, we could be responsible to the Buyer and its affiliates for substantial indemnification obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.At the closing of the Northeast Sale, we entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with the Buyer that contains prohibitions which could negatively impact our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the agreement, we entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with the Buyer, pursuant to which we generally are prohibited from competing with the acquired business in the States of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Rhode Island for a period of five years from the closing, and from engaging in certain other restricted activities. Although we currently do not have any intention to engage in such prohibited activities during the term of the Non-Competition Agreement, circumstances could change and it may become in our best interests to engage in a business that is prohibited by the 52agreement. If this were to occur, in order to engage in the business we would be required to obtain the Buyer's consent under the Non-Competition Agreement, which the Buyer could withhold in its discretion. In the event that we are unable to engage in a business due to the terms of the Non-Competition Agreement, this could have an adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations.We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include: •any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles;•a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting;•our inability to convert to international financial reporting standards, if required;•failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies, including data security;•provider fraud that is not prevented or detected and impacts our medical costs or those of self-insured customers;•failure to protect our proprietary information; and•failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 