ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS You should read the following risk factors in conjunction with discussions of factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the SEC. These cautionary statements are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to public companies with broad operations, such as us. Quadrangle is our principal stockholder and can exercise a controlling influence over us. Quadrangle owns approximately 97.1% of our outstanding common stock as of March 10, 2007. Pursuant to a stockholder agreement with Quadrangle and subject to Quadrangle maintaining a certain threshold of ownership in us, Quadrangle will be able to direct the election of three of our directors and exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving us, appointment of our officers, our acquisition or disposition of material assets and our incurrence of indebtedness. Similarly, Quadrangle will continue to have the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders without the consent of other stockholders and to take other actions that might be favorable to Quadrangle, whether or not these actions would be favorable to us or to our stockholders in general. Following the Merger, Quadrangle will continue to own a majority of the combined company’s stock and will be able to control the election of a majority of the combined company’s board of directors. We have a history of losses, which are likely to continue. We incurred net losses of $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, $15.6 million for the period February 9, 2005 through December 31, 2005, $11.4 million for the period January 1, 2005 through 11 February 8, 2005, and $323.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. These losses reflect the following, among other factors: · our customer base has declined every year since 1999 and our revenue declined every year from 1999 to 2005 with only a slight increase in 2006; · substantial charges incurred by us for amortization of customer accounts; · interest incurred on indebtedness; · expansion of our internal sales and installation efforts; · recapitalization costs in 2006, change in control, debt restructuring and corporate consolidation costs in 2005 and 2004; · a write down of remaining deferred tax assets in 2004; and · other charges required to manage operations. We will continue to incur a substantial amount of interest expense and amortization of customer accounts and we do not expect to attain profitability in the near future. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of March 10, 2007, the face value of our total indebtedness, including capital leases, was approximately $410.8 million. In addition, we will incur additional indebtedness in connection with the Merger, primarily related to the issuance of up to $125.0 million in New Notes in connection with the Exchange offer. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities; · make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or in the economy or to an increase in interest rates; · place us at a disadvantage to some of our competitors, who may be less highly leveraged than us; and · require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be used for debt payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. One or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition. Subject to restrictions in the indenture governing our notes and our senior secured credit facility, we may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks associated with our already substantial indebtedness. 12 Restrictive covenants restrict our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 8.125% senior subordinated notes (the “Senior Subordinated Notes Indenture”) contain covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. Our senior credit facility and the Senior Subordinated Notes Indenture restrict, among other things, our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; · purchase or redeem stock; · issue stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments and extend credit; · engage in transactions with affiliates; · transfer and sell assets; · effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and · create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. Our financial results may be affected by unforeseen adverse events, and we may not be able to meet the financial ratios. Any breach of the covenants in our senior credit facility or in the Senior Subordinated Notes Indenture could cause a default under such instruments. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit facility, the lenders under our senior credit facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under our senior credit facility. If we are unable to repay or refinance our 8.125% senior subordinated notes prior to July 2008, our outstanding indebtedness under our senior credit facility will become due and payable. The revolving credit facility and term loan under our senior credit facility are subject to early maturity if we do not repay or refinance our 8.125% senior subordinated notes on or before June 30, 2008. We do not expect our business to generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our 8.125% senior subordinated notes, so we believe that we will need to refinance all such indebtedness. We may not, however, be able to refinance our 8.125% senior subordinated notes within the limitations set forth in the senior credit facility on favorable terms or at all. If we do not refinance our 8.125% senior subordinated notes on or before June 30, 2008, the aggregate amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility and term loan will become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay, refinance 13 or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit facility, the lenders under our senior credit facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under the senior credit facility. We rely on technology that may become obsolete, which could require significant capital expenditures. Our monitoring services depend upon the technology (hardware and software) of security alarm systems. In order to maintain our customer base that currently uses security alarm components that are or could become obsolete, we will likely be required to upgrade or implement new technologies that could require significant capital expenditures. We may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If we are unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or customer requirements in a timely manner, such inability could adversely affect our business. The failure to successfully integrate IASG’s business and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company’s future results. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the combined company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Protection One and IASG. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of Protection One and IASG must be successfully combined. If the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Protection One and IASG have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any or all of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees after the merger or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on the combined company. Shifts in our current and future customers’ selection of telecommunications services could increase customer attrition and could adversely impact our earnings and cash flow. Certain elements of our operating model rely on our customers’ selection and continued use of traditional, land-line telecommunications services, which we use to communicate with our monitoring operations. In recent years, many customers in our Network Multifamily segment have shown a preference for subscribing only to cellular technology and have discontinued use of land-line telephone services. In order to continue to service existing customers who cancel their land-line telecommunications services and service new customers who do not subscribe to land-line telecommunications services, customers must upgrade to alternative and typically more expensive wireless or internet based technologies. Continued shifts in customers’ preferences regarding telecommunications services could continue to adversely impact attrition and our earnings and cash flow. We face increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in our industry and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We compete with a number of major domestic security monitoring services companies, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due in part to this fierce competition, we have experienced high rates of customer attrition and have been subjected to continual and significant pricing pressures. Some of our competitors, either alone or in conjunction with their respective parent corporate groups, are larger than we are and have greater financial resources, sales, marketing or operational capabilities or 14 brand recognition that we do. In addition, the innovative nature of our markets may attract new entrants to the field. We may not be able to compete successfully with the services of other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenue and operating results. The competitive market for the acquisition and creation of accounts may affect our future profitability. Prior to 2000, we grew very rapidly by acquiring portfolios of alarm monitoring accounts through acquisitions and dealer purchases. Our current strategy is to reduce the cost of acquiring new accounts by utilizing other customer account acquisition channels such as our internal sales force augmented by traditional marketing support. The security alarm monitoring industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with several companies that have account acquisition and loan programs for independent dealers and some of those competitors are larger than we are and have more capital than we do. Increased competition from other alarm monitoring companies could require us to reduce our prices for installations, decrease the monitoring fees we charge our customers and take other measures that could reduce our margins. These decreases and other measures could have a material adverse effect on us. Loss of customer accounts could materially adversely affect our operations. We experience the loss of accounts as a result of, among other factors: · relocation of customers; · customers’ inability or unwillingness to pay our charges; · adverse financial and economic conditions; · the customers’ perceptions of value; and · competition from other alarm service companies. We may experience the loss of newly acquired or created accounts to the extent we do not integrate or adequately service those accounts. Because some acquired accounts are prepaid on an annual, semiannual or quarterly basis, customer loss may not become evident for some time after an acquisition is consummated. During 2006, we experienced a net loss of 18,785 customers, or a 1.9% decrease in our customer base from January 1, 2006. While our attrition rates have stabilized in our Protection One Monitoring segment, we continue to lose customers at a rate faster than our rate of adding customers. However, due to price increases, other adjustments and our increasing focus on adding commercial accounts with higher average RMR, our monitoring and related services revenue increased slightly (less than 1%) in 2006 compared to 2005. The net loss of customers was the primary cause for the decline in monitoring related services revenue of $1.6 million in 2005. We expect account losses to exceed additions until the efforts we are making to acquire new accounts and further reduce our rate of attrition become more successful than they have been to date. Net losses of customer accounts materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customer acquisition strategies may not be successful, which would adversely affect our business. The customer account acquisition strategy we are now employing relies primarily on our internal sales force and forming marketing alliances. We have changed our acquisition strategy several times over the past few years attempting to decrease the cost of adding customers and to decrease the rate of attrition from new accounts. While our present strategy resulted in some improvements in 2006 and 2005, this strategy may not be successful in the future. If the strategy is not successful, our customer base could continue to decline. If successful, selling costs related to this strategy will increase our expenses and uses of cash. Failure to replace customers lost through attrition or increased cash needs to replace those customers 15 could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service debt obligations. We rely on a marketing alliance for the generation of many new accounts. We have established a marketing relationship to offer monitored security services to the residential, single-family market and to businesses in 17 of the larger metropolitan markets in the southeastern United States. Approximately 25% of our new accounts created in each of 2006 and 2005 and 20% of our new accounts created in 2004 were produced from this arrangement. Termination of this arrangement could have a short term material adverse effect on our ability to generate new customers in this territory. Increased adoption of “false alarm” ordinances by local governments may adversely affect our business. An increasing number of local governmental authorities have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws, regulations or policies aimed at reducing the perceived costs to municipalities of responding to false alarm signals. Such measures could include: · requiring permits for the installation and operation of individual alarm systems and the revocation of such permits following a specified number of false alarms; · imposing fines on alarm customers or alarm monitoring companies for false alarms; · imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location after a specified number of false alarms; · requiring further verification of an alarm signal before the police will respond; and · subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms. Enactment of these measures could adversely affect our future business and operations. In addition, concern over false alarms in communities adopting these ordinances could cause a decrease in the timeliness of police response to alarm activations and thereby decrease the propensity of consumers to purchase or maintain alarm monitoring services. Increased adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to void automatic renewal provisions in our customer contracts, or purporting to characterize certain of our charges as unlawful, may adversely affect our business. Our customer contracts typically contain provisions automatically renewing the term of the contract at the end of the initial term, unless cancellation notice is delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract. If the customer cancels prior to the end of the contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, we may charge the customer the charges that would have been paid over the remaining term of the contract, or charge an early cancellation fee. Several states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of statutes, consumer protection policies or legal precedents which purport to void the automatic renewal provisions of our customer contracts, or otherwise restrict the charges we can impose upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could compel us to increase the length of the initial term of our contracts, and increase our charges during the initial term, and consequently lead to less demand for our services and increase our attrition. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could cause us to incur legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed, and the risk that certain of our customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have an adverse effect on us. 16 Due to a concentration of accounts in California, Florida and Texas, we are susceptible to environmental incidents that may negatively impact our results of operations. Almost 45% of our recurring monthly revenue is derived from customers located in California, Florida and Texas. A major earthquake, hurricane or other environmental disaster in an area of high account concentration could disrupt our ability to serve those customers or render those customers uninterested in continuing to retain us to provide alarm monitoring services. Declines in rents, occupancy rates and new construction of multifamily dwellings may affect our sales in this marketplace. Demand for alarm monitoring services in the Network Multifamily segment is tied to the general health of the multifamily housing industry. This industry is dependent upon prevailing rent levels and occupancy rates as well as the demand for construction of new properties. The real estate market in general is cyclical, however, and, in the event of a decline in the market factors described above, it is likely that demand for our alarm monitoring services to multifamily dwellings would also decline, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We could face liability for our failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. The nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. In an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other agreements pursuant to which we sell our products and services contain provisions limiting our liability to customers and third parties. However, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, these limitations may not be enforced. In addition, the costs of such litigation could have an adverse effect on us. Future government regulations or other standards could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits, to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, we may be required to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. In addition, new regulations may be enacted that could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of our Underwriter Laboratories listing could negatively impact our competitive position. All of our alarm monitoring centers are Underwriters Laboratories (“UL”) listed. To obtain and maintain a UL listing, an alarm monitoring center must be located in a building meeting UL’s structural requirements, have back-up and uninterruptible power supplies, have secure telephone lines and maintain redundant computer systems. UL conducts periodic reviews of alarm monitoring centers to ensure compliance with their regulations. Non-compliance could result in a suspension of our UL listing. The loss of our UL listing could negatively impact our competitive position. We depend on our relationships with alarm system manufacturers and suppliers. If we are not able to maintain or renew these alliances, our ability to create new customers and to service our existing account base could be negatively affected. We currently have agreements with certain alarm system manufacturers and suppliers of hardware for products that we install in customer locations for new systems and to repair existing systems. We may not 17 be able to maintain or renew our existing product sourcing arrangements on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain or renew our existing relationships, we may incur additional costs creating new customer arrangements and in servicing existing customers. We rely on subcontractors in certain markets to install, service and repair alarm systems. We currently have agreements with various subcontractors in order to timely and efficiently install, service and repair alarm systems. We may not be able to maintain or renew our subcontractor arrangements on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain or renew our existing subcontractor relationships, we may incur additional costs creating new customer arrangements and in servicing existing customers and customer satisfaction may suffer, leading to increased attrition. Also, our reliance on subcontractors increases our costs related to quality assurance and inspections and potentially diminishes our brand identity with customers. Most of our customers’ alarm systems communicate with our monitoring center via Public Switched Telephone Network lines, or PSTN lines, provided by an incumbent local exchange carrier, which are losing market share to wireless and Internet-based means of communication. The number of PSTN lines provided by incumbent local exchange carriers have been and are expected to continue decreasing. While we offer alarm systems that can communicate signals to our central stations using various wireless and/or Internet-based communication technologies, such solutions are presently more expensive than traditional PSTN-based alarm communicators. Higher costs might reduce the market for new customers of alarm monitoring services, and the trend away from PSTN lines to alternatives may mean more existing customers will cancel service with us. In addition, such shifts to newer communications technologies may increase our costs for personnel training. We are dependent upon our experienced senior management, who would be difficult to replace. The success of our business is largely dependent upon the active participation of our executive officers, who have extensive experience in the industry. As a result, we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers. The loss of service of one or more of such officers for any reason may have an adverse effect on our business. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of securities laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters and public disclosures. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC rules implementing that Act have required changes in some of our corporate governance practices and may require further changes. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors and qualified members of our management team. We are taking steps to comply with the laws and regulations in accordance with the deadlines by which compliance is required, however, our estimate of the amount or timing of additional costs that we may incur to respond by these deadlines may not be accurate. Furthermore, we cannot ensure successful outcomes from the review to be performed in connection with the provisions of Section 404 of the Act regarding management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and the auditor’s attestation to and report on both management’s assessment and the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved staff comments as of March 10, 2007. 