Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as those in other documents the Company files with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. Adverse global economic conditions may continue to negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Current adverse global economic conditions has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on consumers and limit their ability and inclination to spend on leisure and entertainment related products and services. If demand for the Company’s products and services further decreases, as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, the Company’s financial condition would be adversely impacted. The recent financial downturn has had and could continue to negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent global economic downturn has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of Company products, and increased expense or inability to obtain financing for Company operations. 9 The Company was not profitable in fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008, and there can be no assurance that the Company will generate net income in subsequent periods. The Company experienced net losses of $118.1 million and $5.5 million for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company will be cash flow positive or generate net income in fiscal year 2010 or future years. Rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences may adversely affect the Company’s operating results.. The market for the Company’s products and services is characterized by rapid changes in technology. The Company may not accurately predict customer or business partner behavior and may not recognize or respond to emerging trends, changing preferences or competitive factors, and, therefore, the Company may fail to make accurate financial forecasts. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside its control. These factors include: · fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, the Company’s products and services; · introduction of new products and services by the Company or its competitors; · competitive pressures that result in pricing fluctuations; · variations in the timing of orders for and shipments of the Company products; · changes in the mix of products and services that the Company sells and the resulting impact on its gross margins; · changes in the terms of the Company’s licensing, distribution and other agreements; · costs associated with litigation and intellectual property claims; and · economic conditions as noted above in these risks. The Company’s operating expenses are based on its current expectations of its future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. Customer purchasing behavior can be difficult to forecast, and if the Company has lower revenues than expected, the Company may not be able to quickly reduce its expenses in response. As a consequence, the Company’s operating results for a particular quarter could be adversely impacted, and this could in turn negatively affect the market price of its common stock. The Company must develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely manner to remain competitive. To compete successfully in the markets in which the Company operates, it must develop and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. As new industry standards, technologies and formats are introduced, there may be limited sources for the intellectual property rights and background technologies necessary for implementation, and the initial prices that the Company may negotiate in an effort to bring its products to market may prove to be higher than those ultimately offered to other licensees, putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if new formats and technologies prove to be unsuccessful or are not accepted for any reason, there may be limited demand for the Company’s products. The products and services that the Company is currently developing or intends to develop may not achieve feasibility or be accepted by the market, and if the Company is unable to recover the costs associated with its research and development activities, it may adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies on distributors, resellers and retailers to sell its products, and disruptions to these channels would affect adversely the Company’s ability to generate revenues from the sale of its products. The Company sells its retail consumer software to end-users via retail channels through its network of distributors and resellers, and relies on two distributors for a significant portion of sales. Any decrease in revenue from these distributors or the loss of one of these distributors and the Company’s inability to find a satisfactory replacement in a timely manner could negatively impact its operating results adversely. 10 Moreover, the Company’s failure to maintain favorable arrangements with its distributors and resellers may adversely impact its business. For example, the Company’s distributors and resellers and the retailers who sell its software to the public also sell products offered by the Company’s competitors. If the Company’s competitors offer its distributors, resellers or retailers more favorable terms, those distributors, resellers or retailers may de-emphasize, fail to recommend or decline to carry the Company’s products. If the Company’s distributors, resellers or retailers attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, its sales could be impacted negatively. Further, if the Company reduces the prices of its products, it may have to compensate its distributors, resellers or retailers for the difference between the higher price they paid to buy their inventory and the new lower prices of the Company’s products. In addition, the Company is exposed to the risk of product returns from distributors, resellers or retailers through their exercise of contractual return rights. If direct sales to customers through the Company’s web-based channels continue to increase, its distributors, resellers and retailers may suffer decreased sales as a consequence. These changes may cause the Company’s distributors, resellers or retailers to cease distribution of its products or seek more favorable terms, either of which could seriously harm the Company’s business. Because the Company’s products are designed to comply with industry standards, to the extent the Company cannot distinguish its products from those produced by its competitors, its current distributors and customers may choose alternate products or choose to purchase products from multiple vendors. The Company may be unable to compete effectively if it cannot produce products more quickly or at lower cost than its competitors. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the industry standards on which it develops new products will allow it to compete effectively with companies possessing greater financial and technological resources than it has to market, promote and exploit sales opportunities as they arise in the future. Products that are designed to comply with standards may be viewed as interchangeable commodities by the Company’s customers. Further, any new products developed may not be introduced in a timely manner or in advance of the Company’s competitors’ products and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. The Company’s business depends on sales of consumer products and services, which subject it to risks relating to, among other things, changing consumer demands and increased competition. The Company’s business depends on sales of consumer products and services, subjecting it to risks associated with changing consumer demands, extensive competition, and/or product warranty concerns. The Company’s ability to succeed in consumer markets depends upon its ability to enhance its existing offerings, introduce new competitive products and services, and minimize the impact of sudden price decreases. The Company sells its consumer products through bundling arrangements with OEM customers, through its web store, and through physical and web-based retail channels. The Company may not have the resources or expertise to continue to develop and exploit these distribution channels effectively. Additionally, some of the Company’s non-OEM revenue opportunities are fragmented and take more time and effort to establish and maintain. Also, some of the Company’s competitors have well established retail distribution capabilities and existing brands with market acceptance that provide them with a significant competitive advantage. If the Company is not successful in overcoming these challenges, its business and results of operations may be harmed. Because a large portion of the Company’s revenue is from OEM customers, the potential success of its products is tied to the success of their product sales. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenue is derived from sales through OEM customers who bundle copies of Company’s software with their products. Temporary fluctuations in the pricing and availability of the OEM customers’ products could negatively impact sales of the Company’s products, which could in turn harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, sales of the Company’s OEM products depend in large part on consumer acceptance and purchase of DVD players, BD players, DVD recorders and other digital media devices marketed by its OEM customers in PCs, CE devices, or on a stand-alone basis. Consumer acceptance of these digital media devices depends significantly on the price and ease of use of these devices, among other factors. If the demand for these devices is impaired, the Company’s OEM sales will suffer a corresponding decline. In addition, the Company relies on reports prepared by OEM customers to determine the results of its sales of products through these OEM customers. If the OEM customers prepare inaccurate or substandard sales reports, the Company may be required to take corrective actions, including auditing current and prior reports. Such corrective actions may result in a negative impact on the Company’s business or its reported results. Changes in requirements or business models of the Company’s OEM customers may affect negatively its financial results. OEM customers can be quite demanding with respect to the features they demand in software products they bundle, quality and testing requirements, and economic terms. Because there are a relatively small number of significant OEM customers, if they demand reduced prices for Company products, the Company may not be in a position to refuse such demands, which would damage its revenues and results of operations. If particular OEMs demand certain products or product features that the Company is unable to deliver, or if they impose higher quality requirements than the Company is able to satisfy, the Company could lose those relationships, which likely would damage its revenues and its results of operations. Also, if the Company’s competitors offer its OEM customers more favorable terms than it does or if its competitors are able to take advantage of their existing relationships with these OEMs, then these OEMs may not include the Company’s software with their products. The Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to maintain or expand its relationships with OEMs. 11 The Company depends on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of its revenue, and the loss of one or more of these customers could materially harm its operating results, business and financial condition. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, approximately 14% and 11% of the Company’s net revenue was derived from revenue received from Dell and Hewlett-Packard, respectively, and approximately 6% and 16% of its net revenue for fiscal 2009 was derived from revenue received from its two largest distributors, Ingram and Navarre, respectively. In addition, during fiscal 2009, approximately 22% of the Company’s net revenue was derived from online web store revenue received through Digital River. The Company anticipates that the relationships with Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Ingram, Navarre and Digital River will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenue in the future. Any changes in the Company’s relationships with any of these companies could seriously harm its operating results, business, and financial condition. The Company’s web-based revenue is vulnerable to third party operational problems and other risks. The Company currently makes its products and services available through web-based retail sites operated by third party resellers. Under these arrangements, the Company’s reseller partners typically utilize co-branded sites, provide the infrastructure to handle purchase transactions through their secure web sites, and deliver the product (whether via web download or physical fulfillment). The Company’s web store operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems, diversion of sales from other channels, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, and issues relating to the use and protection of customer information. The Company relies on the third party resellers who operate these web stores for their smooth operation. Any interruption of these web stores could have a negative effect on the Company’s business. If the Company’s web store resellers were to withdraw from this business or change their terms of service in ways that were unfavorable to the Company, there might not be a ready alternative outsourcing organization available to the Company, and it might be unprepared to assume operation of the web stores. If any of these events occurs, the Company’s results of operations would be harmed. Changes in the Company’s product and service offerings could cause it to defer the recognition of revenue, which could harm its operating results and adversely impact its ability to forecast revenue. The Company’s products contain advanced features and functionality that may require it to provide increased levels of end user support, and the Company’s services require the Company to continue to provide various benefits during the applicable service terms. To the extent that the Company offers a greater degree of end-user support and ongoing services, it may be required to defer a greater percentage of its revenues into future periods, which could harm its short-term operating results. The Company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers for its manufacturing makes it vulnerable to supplier operational problems. The Company outsources the manufacturing of its consumer software products primarily to HP Software Publishing. HP Software Publishing provides services such as parts procurement, parts warehousing, product assembly and supply chain services from two primary locations: Andover, Massachusetts, servicing North America; and Galway, Ireland, servicing Europe. Production services and supply chain logistics for Asia and the Pacific Rim are provided by ModusLink, Taipei. Any disruption in the operations of these suppliers, or any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacturing and distributing the Company’s products and could adversely impact its operating results. Moreover, if these suppliers ceased to perform or fail to perform as the Company expects, the Company could face difficulty in engaging substitute suppliers in a timely manner or at all or under terms and conditions acceptable to the Company. The Company’s product prices may decline, which could harm its operating results. The market for the Company’s software is intensely competitive. It is likely that prices for its OEM products, particularly in the DVD area, will decline due to competitive pricing pressures from other software providers, competition in the PC and CE industries and continuing concentration among OEM customers. In addition, the Company now derives a substantial portion of its revenue from retail sales, which also are subject to significant competitive pricing pressures. The Company may also experience pricing pressures in other parts of its business. These trends could make it more difficult for the Company to increase or maintain its revenue and may cause it to incur increasing losses. 12 Qualifying and supporting the Company’s products on multiple computer platforms is time consuming and expensive. The Company devotes significant time and resources to qualify and support its software products on various computer platforms, including Microsoft and Apple operating systems. To the extent that any qualified and supported platform is modified or upgraded, or it needs to qualify and support a new platform, the Company could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which could add significantly to its development expenses and adversely affect its operating results. The Company may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute its existing shareholders’ ownership and harm its business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of the Company’s efforts to enhance its existing products and services, introduce new products and services, grow its business and remain competitive, the Company has pursued, and it may continue to pursue acquisitions of companies, products and technologies. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into its current operations, or expand into new markets. In addition, the integration of a new business into the Company’s existing business is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. If Company’s management is unable to minimize the potential disruption to its business during the integration process, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized. Realizing the benefits of an acquisition depends in part on integrating technology, operations and personnel while maintaining focus on existing business. The Company may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating various acquisitions. As a consequence, acquisitions by the Company could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm its results of operations, business, financial condition and/or the price of its stock: · potential conflicts between business cultures, and difficulties and delays in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products, services, business relationships and information and other systems of the acquired businesses; · the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · issuance of equity securities that would dilute the Company’s current shareholders’ percentages of ownership; · large one-time write-offs; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · contractual and/or intellectual property disputes; · undiscovered and unknown problems, defects or other issues related to any acquisition that become known to the Company only after the acquisition; · potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships, or poor acceptance by the Company’s resellers; · difficulties caused by entering geographic and business markets in which the Company has no or only limited prior experience; · acquired product and services may not attract consumers and other end users; · potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and disruptions among employees that may erode employee morale; · inability to implement uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; · the failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity; and · poor acceptance of the Company’s business model and strategies. The Company’s failure to manage its global operations effectively may adversely affect its business and operating results. As of March 31, 2009, the Company had four major locations (defined as a location with more than 15 employees) and employed approximately 272 employees outside the United States. The Company’s management team faces challenges inherent in efficiently managing employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, controls, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The Company’s inability to successfully manage its global organization could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and, as a result, on the market price of its common stock. 13 The Company is subject to risks associated with its international operations. Revenue derived from international customers accounted for approximately 28%, 18% and 22% of the Company’s net revenues in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company expects that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of its net revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of adverse international political, economic or geographic events could result in significant revenue shortfalls, which could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s international operations expose it to additional risks, including, but not limited to: · import and export restrictions and duties, including tariffs, quotas, and other barriers; · delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, foreign regulatory requirements, such as safety or radio frequency emissions regulations; · liquidity problems in various foreign markets; · uncertainties and liabilities associated with foreign tax laws; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more stringent consumer and data protection laws; · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, foreign legislative or regulatory requirements; · difficulties in coordinating the activities of its geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; · difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating its international operations; · potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of the Company’s intellectual property rights than U.S. law; · political and economic instability; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and · other factors beyond its control including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases, particularly in areas in which it has facilities. Certain political, economic and social considerations relating to China could adversely affect the Company. In addition to other risks associated with its global business, the Company faces risks due to the substantial operations it conducts in China, which could be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. The economic reforms in China in recent years are regarded by China’s central government as a way to introduce economic market forces into China. However, given the desire of the central government leadership to maintain stability in China amid rapid social and economic changes, economic market reforms of recent years could be slowed, or even reversed. In addition, many of the laws and regulations impacting the Company in China are relatively new, the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of laws and regulations is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, all of which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. Revenues derived from the Company’s consumer DVD products have declined in recent years and may continue to decline. The Company has experienced declines in consumer products revenue, and absent the introduction and market acceptance of new formats such as BD or new business and service models, the Company expects such declines to continue. 14 With the growth in the Internet software sales, the Company expects to face increasing competition from smaller software providers. The increasing popularity of the Internet is enabling smaller software providers to distribute products with minimal upfront costs or resources. In the past, a substantial barrier to entry into the packaged software market for small-scale providers has been the need to manufacture, package and distribute software through a retail or commercial distribution chain. To the extent consumers increasingly purchase software over the Internet, the Company expects to face increased competition from small software development companies and programmers worldwide. New entrants that have business models focused on Internet distribution may have more favorable cost structures than the companies that employ a multi-channel distribution network, which could give those competitors cost savings, pricing and profitability advantages. The Company has had limited experience with online premium content services, and cannot assure you when or if its new CinemaNow service will have a positive impact on the Company’s profitability. During fiscal 2009, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of CinemaNow, Inc., an online movie download and streaming business. There is no assurance that consumers will widely adopt its online movie service offerings or that it will become profitable. The Company has invested, and will continue to invest, significant time and money in building the premium content business, and the Company’s success could be jeopardized by difficulties in implementing and maintaining premium content information technology systems and infrastructure and/or by increased operating expenses and capital expenditures required to in connection with online premium content offerings. Because the Company has limited experience with online premium content offerings, it cannot assure you that it will be successful or profitable. The Company depends on studios to license its content for its CinemaNow service. The Company’s ability to provide its CinemaNow service depends on studios licensing content for Internet delivery. The studios have great discretion in whether to license their content, and the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary by studio. If the studios change their terms and conditions, are no longer willing or able to provide the Company licenses, or if the Company is otherwise unable to obtain premium content on terms that are acceptable, the ability to provide the CinemaNow service to the Company’s customers will be adversely affected, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The Company relies on a number of third parties to deliver its CinemaNow service. The Company offers its CinemaNow service through various PC and CE platforms and devices. If the Company isn’t successful in creating appropriate distribution relationships with third parties, or if the Company encounters technological, content licensing or other impediments, the Company’s ability to grow its CinemaNow service could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. If the Company’s customers select titles or formats that are more expensive for the Company to acquire and deliver more frequently, the Company’s expenses may increase. Certain titles cost the Company more to acquire or result in greater revenue sharing expenses. If customers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, the Company’s costs and margins could be adversely affected. In addition, films released in high-definition formats such as BD may be more expensive for the Company to acquire and deliver, and if customers select these formats on a proportional basis more often than the existing standard definition formats, the Company’s costs and margins could be adversely affected. The Company could be liable for substantial damages if there is unauthorized duplication of the content it sells. The Company believes that it is able to license premium content through its CinemaNow service in part because the service has been designed to reduce the risk of unauthorized duplication and playback of this content. If these security measures fail, studios and other content providers may terminate their agreements with the Company and, in addition, the Company could be liable for substantial damages. Security breaches might also discourage other content providers from entering into agreements with the Company. The Company may be required to expend substantial money and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. The Company’s executive officers and other key personnel are critical to its business, and because there is significant competition for personnel in the Company’s industry, it may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company’s success depends on the continued contributions of its executive management team, its technical, marketing, sales, customer support and product development personnel. The loss of key individuals or significant numbers of such personnel could significantly harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not have any life insurance or other insurance covering the loss of any of its key employees. 15 Some of the Company’s competitors possess greater technological and financial resources, may produce better or more cost-effective products or services and may be more effective than the Company, in marketing and promoting their products and services. There is a substantial risk that competing companies will produce better or more cost-effective products or services, or will be better equipped than the Company, to promote products or services in the marketplace. A number of companies offer products and services that compete with the Company’s products, either directly or indirectly. Many of these companies have greater financial and technological resources than the Company. Undetected errors found in Company products and services may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could seriously harm the Company’s reputation and business. The Company’s products and services may contain undetected errors, especially when first introduced or as new versions are released, and the Company may need to modify significantly its products or services to correct these errors. Failure to achieve acceptance could result in a delay in, or inability to, receive payment. The Company’s products and services may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun or services rendered, which could result in the rejection of its products and damage to its reputation, as well as lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased service and warranty costs and related litigation expenses and potential liability to third parties, any of which could harm its business. The Company is vulnerable to earthquakes, labor issues and other unexpected events. The Company’s corporate headquarters, as well as the majority of its research and development activities, are located in California and China, both of which are areas known for seismic activity. An earthquake or other disaster could result in an interruption in Company business. The Company’s business also may be impacted by labor issues related to its operations and/or those of its suppliers, distributors or customers. Such an interruption could harm the Company’s operating results. The Company is not likely to have sufficient insurance to compensate adequately for losses that it may sustain as a result of any natural disasters or other unexpected events. If the Company fails to protect its intellectual property rights it may not be able to market its products and services successfully. Unlicensed copying and use of the Company’s intellectual property or illegal infringements of its intellectual property rights represent losses of revenue to the Company. The Company’s products and services are based in large part on proprietary technology, which it has sought to protect with patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which the Company’s products and services may be manufactured, marketed, distributed, sold or used. Moreover, despite the Company’s efforts, these measures only provide limited protection. Third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of the Company’s products or services or otherwise obtain and use its intellectual property without authorization. The Company cannot assure you that the protection of its proprietary rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not develop independently similar technology, duplicate the Company’s products or services or design around any of its patents or other intellectual property rights. The Company may become involved in costly and time-consuming patent litigation. Third parties could claim that the Company’s products or services infringe their patents. As new standards and technologies evolve, the Company, it believes that it may face an increasing number of third party claims relating to patent infringements and potential patent infringements over time. Patent infringement litigation can be time consuming and costly, may divert management resources and could result in the invalidation of the Company’s intellectual property rights. If such litigation resulted in an unfavorable outcome for the Company, it could be subject to substantial damage claims and/or be required to cease production of infringing products, terminate its use of the infringing technology, develop non-infringing technology and/or obtain a license agreement to continue using the technology at issue. Such license agreements might not be available to the Company on acceptable terms, resulting in serious harm to its business. The Company’s use of technology asserted to be infringing could result in liability that could adversely affect its ability to continue its operations as currently structured. 16 The Company may be liable to some of its customers for damages that they incur in connection with intellectual property claims. Although the Company attempts to limit its exposure to liability arising from infringement of third-party intellectual property rights in Company license agreements with customers, the Company does not always succeed in obtaining the limitations it seeks. If the Company is required to pay damages to or incur liability on behalf of its customers, its business could be harmed. Moreover, even if a particular claim falls outside of the Company’s indemnity or warranty obligations to its customers, its customers may be entitled to additional contractual remedies against the Company, which could harm its business. Furthermore, even if the Company was not liable to its customers, its customers may stop buying Company products or attempt to pass on to the Company the cost of any license fees or damages owed to third parties by reducing the amounts they pay for its products. Any of these results could harm its business. The Company may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not effectively reduce its exposure. The Company’s operating results are subject to volatility resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including: · currency movements in which the U.S. dollar becomes stronger with respect to foreign currencies, thereby reducing relative demand for its products and services outside the United States; and · currency movements in which a foreign currency in which the Company has incurred expenses becomes stronger in relation to the U.S. dollar, thereby raising the Company’s expenses for the same level of operating activity. The Company’s stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could decline substantially. The price of the Company’s common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The price of its common stock could fluctuate significantly for any of the following reasons, among others: · fluctuations in the U.S. or world economy or general market conditions, as well as those specific to specific to the PC, CE and related industries; · future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors; · earnings announcements, quarterly variations in operating results, including variations due to one-time payments and other non-recurring revenues that may result from certain customer relationships, as well as variations due to the timing of revenue recognition, including deferrals of revenue; · charges, amortization and other financial effects relating to any future acquisitions or divestitures; · introduction of new products or services or changes in product or service pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, or the entry of new competitors into the digital media software markets; · acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; · changes in earnings estimates by the Company or by independent analysts who cover it; · delay in delivery to market or acceptance of new products and services; · disclosure of material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or its disclosure controls and procedures or of other corporate governance issues; and/or · costs of litigation and intellectual property claims. In addition, stock markets in general, and those for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may impact adversely the market price of the Company’s common stock. 17 The current volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets may continue to exert downward pressure on the Company’s stock price and the Company may cease to be in compliance with the continued listing standards set forth by Nasdaq. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Stock markets in general and the Company’s stock prices in particular, have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past year. Although Nasdaq has suspended the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and the rules requiring a minimum market value of publicly held shares, this suspension is temporary. There is no guarantee that the Company will be in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements when this suspension is lifted. If the Company’s stock trades below $1.00 per share after the temporary suspension is lifted, Nasdaq may commence delisting procedures against the Company. If the Company were delisted, the market liquidity of its common stock could be adversely affected and the market price of its common stock could decrease. A delisting could also adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in a loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 