Risk Factors," for additional information. Such measures include: •requiring permits for individual alarm systems and the revocation of such permits following a specified number of false alarms; •imposing fines on alarm customers or alarm monitoring companies for false alarms; •imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location after a specified number of false alarms; •requiring further verification of an alarm signal before the police will respond; and •subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms. Our operations are subject to a variety of other laws, regulations, and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits, to comply with standards governing employee selection and training, and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The alarm industry is also subject to requirements imposed by various insurance, approval, listing and standards organizations. Depending upon the type of customer served, the type of security service provided, and the requirements of applicable local governmental jurisdiction, adherence to the 11 requirements and standards of such organizations is mandatory in some instances and voluntary in others. Our advertising and sales practices are regulated in the United States by both the Federal Trade Commission and state consumer protection laws. In addition, certain administrative requirements and laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate also regulate such practices. Such laws and regulations include restrictions on the manner in which we promote the sale of our security alarm systems and the obligation to provide purchasers of our alarm systems with rescission rights. Our alarm monitoring business utilizes wire line and wireless telephone lines, radio frequencies, and broadband data circuits to transmit alarm signals. The cost of telephone lines and the type of equipment which may be used in telephone line transmissions are currently regulated by both federal and state governments. The Federal Communications Commission and state public utilities commissions regulate the operation and utilization of radio frequencies. Risk Management The nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. Substantially all of our alarm monitoring agreements and other agreements, pursuant to which we sell our products and services, contain provisions limiting liability to customers in an attempt to reduce this risk. We carry insurance of various types, including general liability and professional liability insurance in amounts management considers adequate and customary for our industry and business. Our loss experience, and the loss experiences of other security service companies, may affect the availability and cost of such insurance. Some of our insurance policies, and the laws of some states, may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. Employees At December 31, 2007 we had approximately 3,200 full and part time employees. Our workforce is not unionized. We generally consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Code of Ethics We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all employees, including executive officers and senior financial and accounting employees. It is our policy to comply strictly with the letter and spirit of all laws affecting our business and the conduct of our officers, directors and employees in business matters. We make available the code of ethics, free of charge, on our website at www.protectionone.com and by responding to requests addressed to our investor relations department. The investor relations department can be contacted by mail at Protection One, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 1035 N 3rd Street, Suite 101, Lawrence, KS 66044 or by calling (785) 856-9368. Access to Company Information We electronically file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. We make available, free of charge, through our website at www.protectionone.com, and by responding to requests addressed to our investor relations department, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on our website is not part of this document. 12 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should read the following risk factors in conjunction with discussions of factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the SEC. These cautionary statements are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to public companies with broad operations, such as us. We have a history of losses, which are likely to continue. We incurred net losses of $32.2 million, $17.4 million, $15.6 million and $11.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and for the periods February 9 to December 31, 2005 and January 1 to February 8, 2005, respectively. Our losses reflect the following, among other factors: •substantial charges incurred by us for amortization of customer accounts; •interest incurred on indebtedness; •expansion of our internal sales and installation efforts; •Merger-related costs in 2007, recapitalization costs in 2006 and debt restructuring costs in 2005; and •other charges required to manage operations. We will continue to incur substantial expenses arising from interest and amortization of customer accounts and we do not expect to attain profitability in the near future. Our marketing alliance with AT&T, which was used for the generation of many new Retail accounts, will be terminated in 2008. Beginning in 2002, we had a marketing relationship with BellSouth Corporation ("BellSouth") (now part of AT&T) to offer monitored security services to the residential, single-family market and to businesses in 17 of the larger metropolitan markets in the southeastern United States. Pursuant to notification received from AT&T, that marketing alliance will be terminated at the end of the second quarter of 2008. We estimate that approximately $0.2 million or 8.0%, $0.2 million or 9.0% and $0.2 million or 8.5% of our new Retail RMR created in the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, can be attributed to sales arising directly from AT&T leads. Termination of the agreement could have a short-term material adverse effect on our ability to generate new customers and RMR in this territory. Our substantial indebtedness adversely affects our financial condition. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, the face value of our total indebtedness, including capital leases, was approximately $526.0 million. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it will: •limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities; •make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or in the economy or to an increase in interest rates; •place us at a disadvantage to some of our competitors, which may be less highly leveraged than us; and 13 •require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be used for debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. One or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition. Subject to restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness which could increase the risks associated with our already substantial indebtedness. Restrictive covenants restrict our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. The credit agreement (the "Senior Credit Agreement") governing our senior credit facility, the indenture (the "Senior Secured Notes Indenture") governing our 12% senior secured notes due 2011 (the "Senior Secured Notes") and the credit agreement ("Unsecured Term Loan Agreement") governing the new unsecured term loan facility we entered into in March 2008 contain covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Obligations," for more information on our indebtedness. Our Senior Credit Agreement, the Senior Secured Notes Indenture and the Unsecured Term Loan Agreement restrict, among other things, our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; •purchase or redeem stock; •issue stock of our subsidiaries; •make investments and extend credit; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •transfer and sell assets; •effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and •create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt and equity offerings. Our financial results may be affected by unforeseen adverse events, and we may not be able to meet the financial ratio requirements. Any breach of the covenants in our Senior Credit Agreement, Unsecured Term Loan Agreement or Senior Secured Notes Indenture could cause a default under such instruments. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our Senior Credit Agreement or Senior Secured Notes Indenture, the lenders under our senior credit facility or the trustee under the Senior Secured Notes Indenture could institute 14 foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under our senior credit facility or Senior Secured Notes. Entities affiliated with Quadrangle Group and Monarch Alternative Capital are our principal stockholders and together can exercise a controlling influence over us, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Quadrangle Capital Partners LP, Quadrangle Capital Partners-A LP and Quadrangle Select Partners LP (collectively "Quadrangle") and Monarch Debt Recovery Master Fund Ltd and Monarch Opportunities Master Fund Ltd (collectively "Monarch" and together with Quadrangle the "Principal Stockholders"), collectively own approximately 70.0% of our outstanding common stock. Pursuant to a stockholders agreement, subject to the Principal Stockholders, acting together, maintaining a certain threshold of ownership in us, the Principal Stockholders, acting together, will be able to control the election of a majority of our directors and accordingly exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving us, appointment of our officers, our acquisition or disposition of material assets and our incurrence of indebtedness. Similarly, the Principal Stockholders, acting together, will continue to have the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders without the consent of other stockholders and to take other actions that might be favorable to the Principal Stockholders, whether or not these actions would be favorable to us or to our stockholders in general. We rely on technology that may become obsolete, which could require significant capital expenditures. Our monitoring services depend upon the technology (hardware and software) of security alarm systems. In order to maintain our customer base that currently uses security alarm components that are or could become obsolete, we may be required to upgrade or implement new technologies that could require significant capital expenditures. For example, we have an installed base of alarm systems that use an analog wireless network for sending signals from the location of the alarm system to our monitoring centers. The carriers that provide the required analog wireless network services have discontinued providing that service or will do so in the near future. As a result, we are upgrading some of the affected alarm systems. The cost and process of this upgrade adversely affected our earnings and cash flow during the last half of 2007 and will adversely affect our earnings and cash flow during the first quarter of 2008 and could adversely affect attrition. In the future, we may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If we are unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or customer requirements in a timely manner, such inability could adversely affect our business. Shifts in our current and future customers' selection of telecommunications services could increase customer attrition and could adversely impact our earnings and cash flow. Certain elements of our operating model rely on our customers' selection and continued use of traditional, land-line telecommunications services, which we use to communicate with our monitoring operations. In order to continue to service existing customers who cancel their land-line telecommunications services and to service new customers who do not subscribe to land-line telecommunications services, customers must upgrade to alternative and often more expensive wireless or internet based technologies. Higher costs may reduce the market for new customers of alarm monitoring services, and the trend away from traditional land lines to alternatives may mean more existing customers will cancel service with us. Our Multifamily segment, in particular, has experienced customer cancellations which we believe are due in part to low penetration of land-line based phone services in rental units. Continued shifts in customers' preferences regarding telecommunications services could continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow and customer attrition. 15 The failure to successfully integrate IASG's business and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company's future results. The success of the Merger will partially depend on the combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Protection One and IASG. Among the most critical of the few remaining integration tasks are the internal control assessment of IASG controls during 2008, the migration of Retail account monitoring to Retail central stations and the completion of an upgrade of the Wholesale central stations to one technology platform. Integration efforts will divert management attention and could have a material adverse effect on the combined company. As part of the integration process, we continue to integrate the accounting and internal control systems of IASG with ours. As of December 31, 2005, IASG's management and independent auditor determined that IASG did not maintain effective controls over accounts receivable, revenue and deferred revenue accounts and that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness. In its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, IASG concluded that as of December 31, 2006, those material weaknesses had been remediated. While we believe IASG has taken remedial action in response to its material weaknesses, as part of the integration process, we or our independent auditor may identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future. We may not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits from prior or future acquisitions of portfolio alarm monitoring contracts. Acquisitions of end-user alarm monitoring contracts involve a number of risks, including the possibility that the acquiring company will not be able to realize the recurring monthly revenue stream it contemplated at the time of acquisition because of higher than expected attrition rates or fraud. Although we generally complete an extensive due diligence process prior to acquiring alarm monitoring contracts and obtain representations and warranties from sellers, we may not detect fraud, if any, on the part of any seller, including the possibility that any seller misrepresented the historical attrition rates of the sold contracts or sold or pledged the contracts to a third party. If the sale of alarm monitoring contracts involves fraud or the representations and warranties are otherwise inaccurate, it may not be possible to recover from the seller damages in an amount sufficient to fully compensate us for any resulting losses. In such event, we may incur significant costs in litigating ownership or breach of acquisition contract terms. We face continuing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in our industry and, if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We compete with a number of major domestic security monitoring services companies, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. We believe that this competition is a factor in our attrition, limits our ability to raise prices, and, in some cases, requires that we lower prices. Some of our competitors, either alone or in conjunction with their respective parent corporate groups, are larger than we are and have greater financial resources, sales, marketing or operational capabilities or brand recognition than we do. In addition, opportunities to take market share using innovative products, services and sales approaches may attract new entrants to the field. We may not be able to compete successfully with the offerings and sales tactics of other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenue and operating results. Our customer acquisition and creation strategies and the competitive market for the acquisition and creation of customer accounts may affect our future profitability. Prior to 2000, we grew very rapidly by acquiring portfolios of alarm monitoring accounts through acquisitions and dealer purchases. Since the current management team joined us in 2001, our account 16 acquisition strategy has evolved to emphasize our internal sales force, supported by traditional marketing practices and by forming marketing alliances. In addition, we seek to augment our internal efforts with acquisitions when suitable market conditions exist. If our current strategy is not successful, our customer base could continue to decline. If we are successful executing a customer acquisition strategy emphasizing internal sales, selling costs will increase our expenses and uses of cash. Failure to replace customers lost through attrition or increased use of cash to replace those customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service debt obligations. Increased competition from other alarm monitoring companies could require us to reduce our prices for installations, decrease the monitoring fees we charge our customers and take other measures that could reduce our margins. These decreases and other measures could have a material adverse effect on us. We compete with several companies that have account acquisition and loan programs for independent dealers and some of those competitors are larger than we are and have more capital than we do. Increased competition from other alarm monitoring companies could require us to pay more for account acquisitions and take other measures that could reduce returns from investing in acquisitions of customer accounts. These measures could have a material adverse effect on us. Loss of customer accounts could materially adversely affect our operations. We experience the loss of accounts as a result of, among other factors: •relocation of customers; •customers' inability or unwillingness to pay our charges; •adverse financial and economic conditions; •the customers' perceptions of value; •competition from other alarm service companies; •Wholesale dealers' perception of channel conflict with us; •the sale of accounts by Wholesale dealers to third parties who choose to monitor the purchased accounts elsewhere; and •the purchase of our Wholesale dealers by third parties who choose to monitor elsewhere. We may experience the loss of newly acquired or created accounts to the extent we do not integrate or adequately service those accounts. Customer loss may not become evident for some time after an acquisition is consummated because some acquired accounts are prepaid on an annual, semiannual or quarterly basis. While attrition rates in our Retail segment had declined significantly prior to the Merger, higher attrition rates from the Retail portfolio acquired from IASG could result in our losing more Retail RMR than we add in the near term. We also expect Multifamily account and RMR losses to exceed additions until the efforts we are making to acquire new accounts and further reduce our rate of attrition become more successful than they have been to date. Wholesale attrition could increase if some of IASG's dealers choose not to be monitored by a company affiliated with us due to perceptions of channel conflict or due to solicitations from former IASG employees. Net losses of customer accounts could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Increased adoption of "false alarm" ordinances by local governments may adversely affect our business. An increasing number of local governmental authorities have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws, regulations or policies aimed at reducing the perceived costs to municipalities of responding to false alarm signals. Such measures could include: •requiring permits for the installation and operation of individual alarm systems and the revocation of such permits following a specified number of false alarms; •imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location after a specified number of false alarms; •requiring further verification of an alarm signal before the police will respond; and •subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms. Enactment of these measures could adversely affect our future business and operations. For example, concern over false alarms in communities adopting these ordinances could cause a decrease in the timeliness of police response to alarm activations and thereby decrease the propensity of consumers to purchase or maintain alarm monitoring services, and our costs to service affected accounts could increase. Increased adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to void automatic renewal provisions in our customer contracts, or purporting to characterize certain of our charges as unlawful, may adversely affect our business. Our customer contracts typically contain provisions automatically renewing the term of the contract at the end of the initial term, unless cancellation notice is delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract. If the customer cancels prior to the end of the contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, we may charge the customer the amounts that would have been paid over the remaining term of the contract, or charge an early cancellation fee. Several states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of statutes, consumer protection policies or legal precedents which purport to void the automatic renewal provisions of our customer contracts, or otherwise restrict the charges we can impose upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could compel us to increase the length of the initial term of our contracts, and increase our charges during the initial term, and consequently lead to less demand for our services and increase our attrition. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could cause us to incur legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed, and the risk that certain of our customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have an adverse effect on us. Due to a concentration of accounts in California, Florida and Texas, we are susceptible to environmental incidents that may negatively impact our results of operations. Almost 44% of our RMR at December 31, 2007 was derived from customers located in California, Florida and Texas. A major earthquake, hurricane or other environmental disaster in an area of high account concentration could disrupt our ability to serve those customers or render those customers uninterested in continuing to retain us to provide alarm monitoring services. We are susceptible to downturns in the housing market which may negatively impact our results of operations. We believe demand for alarm monitoring services in our Retail segment is affected by the turnover in the single family housing market. Downturns in the rate of sale of existing single family homes would reduce opportunities to make sales of new security systems and services and reduce opportunities to 18 take over existing security systems that had previously been monitored by our competitors. These reduced opportunities to add RMR could negatively affect our results of operations. Declines in rents, occupancy rates and new construction of multifamily dwellings may affect our sales in this marketplace. We believe demand for alarm monitoring services in the Multifamily segment is tied to the general health of the multifamily housing industry. This industry is dependent upon prevailing rent levels and occupancy rates as well as the demand for construction of new properties. Given the generally cyclical nature of the real estate market, we believe that, in the event of a decline in the market factors described above, it is likely that demand for our alarm monitoring services to multifamily dwellings would also decline, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We could face liability for our failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. The nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. In an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other agreements pursuant to which we sell our products and services contain provisions limiting our liability to customers and third parties. In the event of litigation with respect to such matters, however, these limitations may not be enforced. In addition, the costs of such litigation could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that adequate insurance is not available or our insurance is not deemed to cover a claim, we could face liability. We carry insurance of various types, including general liability and professional liability insurance in amounts management considers adequate and customary for the industry. Some of our insurance policies, and the laws of some states, may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. If we incur increased losses related to employee acts or omissions, or system failure, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, or if we are unable to receive reimbursements from insurance carriers, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Future government regulations or other standards could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, we may be required to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. In addition, new regulations may be enacted that could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of our Underwriter Laboratories listing could negatively impact our competitive position. All of our alarm monitoring centers are Underwriters Laboratories ("UL") listed. To obtain and maintain a UL listing, an alarm monitoring center must be located in a building meeting UL's structural requirements, have back-up and uninterruptible power supplies, have secure telephone lines and maintain redundant computer systems. UL conducts periodic reviews of alarm monitoring centers to ensure compliance with their regulations. Non-compliance could result in a suspension of our UL listing. The loss of our UL listing could negatively impact our competitive position. 19 We depend on our relationships with alarm system manufacturers and suppliers. If we are not able to maintain or renew these alliances or our manufacturers and suppliers fail to provide us with innovative product offerings, our ability to create new customers and service our existing account base could be negatively affected. We currently have agreements with certain electronic security system manufacturers and suppliers of hardware for products that we install in customer locations as part of new systems or as replacement parts for existing systems. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing product sourcing arrangements on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all, if one or more of our suppliers discontinue offering a technology we have relied on or if one or more of our suppliers exits the electronic security system market. If we are unable to maintain or renew our existing relationships, we may incur additional costs creating new supplier arrangements and in servicing existing customers We are also dependent on our electronic security system manufacturers for continued technological innovation. If the electronic security system product families we have invested in fail to keep pace with other manufacturers' and suppliers' technologies, we may incur additional training and inventory costs and our ability to attract new customers and service our existing customers could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon our experienced senior management, who would be difficult to replace. The success of our business is largely dependent upon the active participation of our executive officers, who have extensive experience in the industry. As a result, we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers. The terms of these employment agreements are automatically extended for an indefinite number of one-year periods unless either party sends written notice to the other party of its intention not to renew the agreement at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the one-year period. The loss of service of one or more of such officers or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel for any reason may have an adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 