ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors and risks, among others, could affect our future performance and should be considered in evaluating our outlook. We may be unable to successfully execute on our strategic plan to increasingly focus on vertical markets. Over the last three fiscal years, we have implemented a vertical market approach to our business, focusing on the following target markets: telecommunications, retail, the public sector, and financial services, which includes insurance and retail banking. The success of this vertical market strategy is integral to our overall strategic plan. However, opportunities in these markets are difficult to predict and our success and strategy depend on our ability to continue to develop domain expertise in these vertical markets, either internally or through acquisition. If customer demand does not grow as anticipated or our products and services are not accepted in these markets, or if we are unable to attract and retain key employees with domain expertise in these vertical markets, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to execute our long-term growth strategy because of the need to achieve short-term financial goals. Our long-term success and growth requires significant investment in research and development activities and other initiatives that may not produce any revenues for several years, if at all. In contrast, we must continue to increase our revenues and contain our costs in order to meet our quarterly financial objectives. As a result, our ability to make long-term investments may be limited from quarter to quarter, which may have a material adverse impact on our ability to sustain long-term growth. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our quarterly operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon factors such as the ones described in this Annual Report. Because a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, minor variations in the timing of orders and shipments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results. A significant portion of our revenues in each quarter results from software and data licenses issued in that quarter, particularly from orders we receive in the last month of the quarter. Accordingly, our ability to accurately forecast future revenues and income for any period is necessarily limited. We may fail to successfully achieve the widespread adoption of our server-based enterprise solutions. A key element of our growth strategy is for our customers to adopt our location intelligence solutions across the enterprise. This involves the use of server-based enterprise solutions built on our Envinsa platform and MapXtreme 2006 developer tools. It also requires strategic relationships that enable integration of our solutions with other enterprise systems such as business intelligence. While we execute this strategy, we must also support and continue to develop our successful desktop solutions, including MapInfo Professional. Maintaining our focus on both the enterprise and the desktop could be difficult and we could lack the development resources needed to do so. In addition, if we fail to maintain the strategic relationships and internal expertise required for expanding our enterprise presence, the widespread adoption of our server-based enterprise solutions may not occur. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and we may encounter increased competition from large enterprise technology providers. While we encounter significant competition in the market for business mapping systems worldwide from our traditional competitors, which include Environmental System Research Institute, the GIS division of Autodesk, Claritas and Buxton, we may face increased competition from large enterprise technology providers such as Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, SAP, Yahoo! and Google. These large enterprise technology providers have significant name recognition, and substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and 13 Table of Contents development staffs and production facilities than we do. Increased competition from these companies may lead to pricing pressures that could reduce our gross margins. Consolidation within our industry could materially reduce our competitive position. We believe our ability to provide complete location intelligence solutions, with access to data on a global basis and domain expertise in our target vertical markets, is a distinct competitive advantage. Increased consolidation within the location intelligence industry, including data providers, that resulted in one or more companies with similar attributes, could materially weaken our competitive position. We may lack the resources to continue development of our broad array of products. The number of products we offer has grown considerably in the past few years, due largely to our acquisition of companies with proven solutions in certain vertical markets. Maintaining and improving these products in response to customer demand produces an increased demand on our engineering and development resources. If we are unable to maximize our resources to meet these development demands, customer acceptance of our products could be affected negatively and our financial performance could suffer. We may be unable to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in our industry or to timely introduce new or enhanced products that achieve market acceptance. Our industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and changing customer demands. These conditions require continuous expenditures on product research and development to enhance existing products, create new products and avoid product obsolescence. For example, the introduction of Microsoft's .NET framework has required substantial development on our part to produce new versions of our products that are compatible with this new technology. We believe that the timely development of new products and continuing enhancements to existing products is essential to maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. During recent years, we introduced a number of new or substantially updated products, including Envinsa™, Exponare™, and < I>MapInfo® Professional. Our future success depends in part upon customer and market acceptance of these new products and initiatives, which is uncertain. Any failure to achieve increased acceptance of these and other new product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Consolidations and economic volatility in our targeted vertical markets may adversely affect our business. Because the success of our commercial strategy depends upon our sales performance within our targeted vertical markets, developments within those markets could limit our success. For example, the telecommunications industry has recently experienced significant consolidation and this trend is expected to continue. These consolidations in any vertical market could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged companies and could reduce the number of potential customers. Because our revenues from the affected vertical market could become dependent on a smaller number of companies, the loss of a significant customer could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Economic difficulties within any of our targeted vertical markets could also negatively affect our ability to achieve our sales targets. The loss of access to third party data would harm our business. We rely in part on independent developers of specialized data products that are used with our software. In some cases, we rely on sole source suppliers for data. Failure by these independent developers to continue to provide such data products, or changes in the contractual arrangements with these independent developers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we lose access to any of these sources of data, especially the sole source suppliers, we may experience delays in finding and securing alternative suppliers and our results could be materially adversely affected. Unfavorable economic conditions may affect the level of technology spending by our customers and the demand for our products and services. The revenue growth and profitability of our 14 Table of Contents business depend on the overall demand for software products and related services, particularly within our target vertical markets. Because we sell our products and services primarily to customers in the public sector, retail, telecommunications, and financial services (including insurance) markets, our business depends on the overall economy and the economic and business conditions within these vertical markets. Any future stock market decline or broad economic slowdown will affect the demand for our software products and related services and decrease technology spending of many of our customers and potential customers. These events could have a material effect on us in the future, including, without limitation, on our future revenue and earnings. We may never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. A key part of our growth strategy is to acquire other companies and we continue to review potential acquisition and investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that acquisition candidates will continue to be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that the acquisitions we do make will be successful. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: possible decreases in capital resources or dilution to existing stockholders; difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with an acquisition and the subsequent assimilation of the operations and the services or products of an acquired company; the difficulties of operating a new business; potential inherited liability for the past actions of an acquired company; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; a limited ability to predict future operating results of an acquired business; and the potential loss of key employees and customers of an acquired company. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet expectations, we may be required to restructure the acquired business or write off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business, including goodwill. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will be successfully integrated into our operations or will have the intended financial or strategic results. An impairment of the value of our investments or acquired intangible assets could significantly reduce our earnings. We periodically review several items on our balance sheet for impairment and record an impairment charge if we determine that the value of our assets has been impaired. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately $52.1 million in goodwill, $9.4 million in other intangible assets and $1.1 million in investments. We periodically review these assets for impairment. If we determine that the carrying value of these assets is not recoverable, we would record an impairment charge against our results of operations. Such an impairment charge may be significant, and we are unable to predict the amount, if any, of potential future impairments. In addition, if we engage in additional acquisitions, we may incur additional goodwill and intangible assets. We may not be able to fully use our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future taxable income, if any. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately $21.2 million in net operating loss carryforwards. These net operating loss carryforwards could reduce our taxable income in future years. However, they are scheduled to expire at various dates beginning in 2021, and we may not be able to fully use these net operating carryforwards to offset any future taxable income we may earn. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Our continued success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, sales and 15 Table of Contents marketing, executive and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. With our adoption of FAS 123R, the expensing of stock-based compensation, our ability to issue stock options as an incentive to employees may be limited in the future, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing employees and to attract qualified candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel. Loss of key personnel or changes in management could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is exposed to the risks inherent in our international operations. Revenues outside the United States represented approximately 58% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006. The international portion of our business is subject to a number of inherent risks, including: difficulties in building and managing international operations; reliance on financial commitments from certain international distributors; difficulties in localizing products and translating documentation into foreign languages; fluctuations in import/export duties and quotas; potentially adverse tax consequences; and regulatory, economic, or political changes in international markets. In addition, we have historically experienced increased credit risk in some of our international markets. Our operating results are also affected by changes in exchange rates and limitations on the repatriation of funds. Approximately 45% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006 were denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, changes in international business conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our software products may contain defects or errors, which could decrease sales, injure our reputation or delay shipments of our products. The software products that we develop are complex and must meet the stringent technical requirements of our customers. In addition, to keep pace with the rapid technological change in our industry and to avoid the obsolescence of our software products, we must quickly develop new products and enhancements to existing products. Because of this complexity and rapid development cycle, we cannot assure you that our software products are free of undetected errors, especially in newly released software products and new versions of existing software products. If our software is not free of errors, this could result in litigation, fewer sales, increased product returns, damage to our reputation and an increase in service and warranty costs, which would adversely affect our business. Our financial performance will suffer if we are unable to contain our cost of revenues. The cost of our revenues varies with the mix of technology development and licensing fees, product revenues, services revenue and services utilization rates, as well as with the distribution channel mix and the success of our cost reduction measures. Changes in our revenue mix, including an increasing percentage of sales attributable to services (which have lower margins associated with them), as well as changes in our distribution model, may increase the cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues in the future. We may be unable to adequately secure and protect our patent, trademark and other proprietary rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our technology in the United States and foreign countries. We attempt to protect our proprietary information through a combination of copyright, patent and trade secret protections, as well as through employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized 16 Table of Contents third parties to copy or reverse engineer our products, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Further, third parties could challenge the scope or enforceability of our patent rights or our patents may be issued with claims that are narrower in scope than those we had sought. In certain foreign countries, the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any misappropriation of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we cannot assure you that the measures we take to protect our proprietary rights are adequate. Claims that we infringe the proprietary rights of third parties could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Third parties may claim that our products or services infringe their proprietary rights. Any infringement claim, with or without merit, would be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert our management's attention from our core business. For example, one of our former resellers has made copyright infringement and other claims against us. See Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" for a description of this proceeding. In the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may have to pay significant damages, incur substantial legal fees, develop costly non-infringing technology, or enter into license agreements that require us to pay substantial royalties and that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, some of our customer agreements, including our shrink-wrap end-user licenses, obligate us to indemnify customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others. We may incur substantial indemnification obligations under these agreements if third parties make an infringement claim against our customers. From time to time, we are or may be subject to litigation that could result in significant costs to us. From time to time, we have been, and may continue to be, subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation against us may include claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by us, claims for damages related to errors and defects in our products and services and other claims. As a result, we could incur significant expenses to defend against these claims or we could have to pay substantial damages, which could materially harm our business and divert our management's attention from our core business. We are currently involved in litigation with one of our former resellers. That reseller has alleged claims based on, among other things, breach of contract and copyright infringement. Although we are vigorously defending against the claims of this reseller, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. See Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" for a further description of this proceeding. Market volatility may affect our stock price, and the value of our common stock may experience sudden decreases. There has been, and will likely continue to be, significant volatility in the market price of securities of technology companies, including ours. These fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially: announcements of new products by us or our competitors; litigation involving us; quarterly fluctuations in our financial results or other software companies' financial results; shortfalls in our actual financial results compared to our guidance or results previously forecasted by stock market analysts; acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; 17 Table of Contents our stock repurchase program; the gain or loss of a significant customer; and general conditions in the software industry and conditions in the financial markets. A decline in the market price of our common stock may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees, and acquire other companies or businesses. In addition, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware General Corporation Law may deter a change of our control, which may affect our stockholders. Certain provisions of our charter documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: granting our board of directors the authority to issue "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval; limitations on our stockholders' ability to call special meetings; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions could adversely affect the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock and prevent stockholders from realizing a premium that they may receive in connection with a corporate takeover. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 