Risk Factors.” While as of March 31, 2010, the Company has not incurred substantial expenses in connection with the DivX Acquisition, since that date, the Company has incurred substantial expenses and expects to incur additional significant expenses prior to any closing. The DivX Merger Agreement does not contain any post-closing indemnification provisions. Therefore, any claims for known or unknown DivX liabilities, whether related to intellectual property ownership, infringement or otherwise, would be the responsibility of the consolidated Company post-DivX Acquisition. Any such claim, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and divert management’s attention. Furthermore, if the acquisition is not completed, the Company may be subject to a number of adverse consequences. For example, the market price of the Company’s common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the DivX Acquisition will be completed and will be successful. Integrating DivX into the Company’s existing operations will dilute the Company’s existing shareholders’ ownership percentages, involve considerable risks and may not be successful. The integration of DivX into the Company’s existing operations business may be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt the Company’s existing operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If the Company’s management is unable to minimize the potential disruption to its business during the integration process, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the DivX acquisition. Realizing the benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on the integration of technology, operations, and personnel while maintaining adequate focus on the Company’s core businesses. The Company may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating DivX, including the following, any of which could seriously harm its results of operations, business, financial condition and/or the price of its stock: · issuance of equity securities that will dilute the Company’s current shareholders’ percentages of ownership; · conflicts between business cultures; · difficulties and delays in the integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products, services, business relationships and information and other systems of the acquired businesses; · the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · large one-time write-offs; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · contractual and/or intellectual property disputes; · problems, defects or other issues relating to acquired products or technologies that become known to the Company only after the closing of DivX Acquisition; · conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships, or poor acceptance by resellers of the acquired products; · difficulties caused by entering geographic and business markets in which the Company has no or only limited experience; · acquired products and services that may not attract customers; · loss of key employees and disruptions among employees that may erode employee morale; · inability to implement uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; · failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity; and · poor acceptance of the Company’s revised business model and strategies. 14 The Company’s operating expenses may increase significantly over the near term due to the increased headcount, expanded operations and changes related to the DivX Acquisition. To the extent that the expenses increase but revenues do not, there are unanticipated expenses related to the integration process, or there are significant costs associated with presently unknown liabilities, the combined Company’s business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Failure to minimize the numerous risks associated with the post-acquisition integration strategy also may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s failure to manage its global operations effectively may adversely affect its business and operating results. As of March 31, 2010, the Company had seven major locations (defined as a location with more than 15 employees) and employed 268 employees outside the United States. The Company faces challenges inherent in efficiently managing employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, controls, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The Company’s inability to successfully manage its global organization could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company is subject to risks associated with its international operations. Revenue derived from international customers accounted for approximately 22%, 28% and 18% of the Company’s net revenues in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company expects that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of its net revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of adverse international political, economic or geographic events could result in significant revenue shortfalls, which could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Areas of risk associated with the Company’s international operations include: · import and export restrictions and duties, including tariffs, quotas, and other barriers; · difficulties in obtaining export licenses for certain technology; · foreign regulatory requirements, such as safety or radio frequency emissions regulations; · liquidity problems in various foreign markets; · uncertainties and liabilities associated with foreign tax laws; · burdens of complying with foreign laws, including consumer and data protection laws; · changes in, or impositions of, foreign legislative or regulatory requirements; · difficulties in coordinating the activities of geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; · difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating its international operations; · potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that are less protective of the Company’s intellectual property rights than U.S. law; · political and economic instability in the countries in which the Company operates or sells products; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and · other factors beyond its control including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases, particularly in areas in which it has facilities. Certain political, economic and social considerations relating to China could adversely affect the Company. In addition to other risks associated with the Company’s global business, it faces risks due to the substantial operations it conducts in China, which could be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. As of March 31, 2010, the Company had 206 employees in China, primarily carrying out research and development activities. China has implemented economic reforms as a way to introduce a stronger market economy, but it is possible that these economic reforms of recent years could be slowed or reversed. In addition, many of the laws and regulations impacting the Company in China are relatively new, the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of laws and regulations is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, all of which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. 15 The Company faces increasing competition for online sales from smaller software providers. The Internet enables smaller software providers to distribute products with minimal upfront costs or resources. In the past, a substantial barrier to entry into the packaged software market for small-scale providers was the need to manufacture, package and distribute software through a retail or commercial distribution chain. To the extent consumers increasingly purchase software over the Internet, the Company expects to face increased competition from small software development companies and programmers worldwide. New entrants that have business models focused on Internet distribution may have more favorable cost structures than the companies that employ a multi-channel distribution network, which could give those competitors cost savings, pricing and profitability advantages. The Company has had limited experience with online premium content services, and cannot assure you when or if its RoxioNow Service will have a positive impact on the Company’s profitability. During fiscal year 2009, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of CinemaNow, Inc., an online movie download and streaming business, which the Company now operates as part of its RoxioNow Service. There is no assurance that consumers will widely adopt the Company’s RoxioNow Service offerings or that they will become profitable. The Company has invested, and will continue to invest, significant time and money in building and organizing the premium content business, and its success could be jeopardized by difficulties in implementing and maintaining premium content information technology systems and infrastructure and/or by increased operating expenses and capital expenditures required to in connection with online premium content offerings. Because the Company has limited experience with online premium content offerings, it cannot assure you that it will be successful or profitable. The Company depends on studios to license its content for its RoxioNow Service. The Company’s ability to provide its RoxioNow Service depends on studios licensing content for online delivery. The studios have great discretion whether to license their content, and the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary by studio. If studios change their terms and conditions, are no longer willing or able to provide the Company licenses, or if the Company is otherwise unable to obtain premium content on terms that are acceptable, the ability to provide the RoxioNow Service will be adversely affected, which could harm its business and operating results. The Company relies on a number of third parties to deliver its RoxioNow Service. The Company’s RoxioNow Service is embedded in various PC and CE platforms and devices, which are then distributed through multiple retail channels. If the Company is not successful in establishing and maintaining appropriate OEM and distribution relationships, or if it encounters technological, content licensing or other impediments, the Company’s ability to grow its RoxioNow Service could be adversely impacted, which could harm its business and operating results. If the Company’s customers select titles or formats that are more expensive for the Company to acquire and deliver more frequently, the Company’s expenses may increase. Certain titles cost the Company more to acquire or result in greater revenue-sharing expenses. If customers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, the Company’s costs and margins could be adversely affected. In addition, films released in high-definition formats may be more expensive for the Company to acquire and deliver, and if customers select these formats more frequently on a proportional basis, the Company’s costs and margins could be adversely affected. The Company could be liable for substantial damages if there is unauthorized duplication of the content it sells. The Company believes that it is able to license premium content through its RoxioNow Service in part because the service has been designed to reduce the risk of unauthorized duplication and playback of this content. If these security measures fail, studios and other content providers may terminate their agreements with the Company and, in addition, the Company could be liable for substantial damages. Security breaches might also discourage other content providers from entering into agreements with the Company. The Company may be required to expend substantial money and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. The Company’s executive officers and other key personnel are critical to its business, and because there is significant competition for personnel in the Company’s industry, it may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company’s success depends on the continued contributions of its executive management team and its technical, marketing, sales, customer support and product development personnel. The loss of key individuals or significant numbers of such personnel could significantly harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not have any life insurance or other insurance covering the loss of any of its key employees. 16 Some of the Company’s competitors possess greater technological and financial resources, may produce better or more cost-effective products or services and may be more effective than the Company, in marketing and promoting their products and services. There is a substantial risk that competing companies will produce better or more cost-effective products or services or will be better equipped than the Company is to promote products or services in the marketplace. A number of companies offer products and services that compete with the Company’s products, either directly or indirectly. Many of these companies have greater financial and technological resources than the Company does. Errors in Company products and services may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could adversely impact the Company’s reputation and business. The Company’s products and services may contain undetected errors, especially when first introduced or as new versions are released, and the Company may need to make significant modifications to correct these errors. Failure to achieve acceptance could result in a delay in, or inability to, receive payment, a rejection of products and services, damage to the Company’s reputation, as well as lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased service and warranty costs and related litigation expenses and potential liability to third parties, any of which could harm the Company’s business. The Company is vulnerable to earthquakes, labor issues and other unexpected events. The Company’s corporate headquarters, as well as the majority of its research and development activities, are located in California and China, both of which are areas known for seismic activity. An earthquake or other disaster could result in an interruption in the Company business. The Company’s business also may be impacted by labor issues related to its operations and/or those of its suppliers, distributors or customers. Such an interruption could harm its operating results. The Company is not likely to have sufficient insurance to compensate adequately for lost revenues and losses that it may sustain as a result of any natural disasters or other unexpected events. If the Company fails to protect its intellectual property rights it may not be able to market its products and services successfully. Unlicensed copying and use of the Company’s intellectual property or illegal infringements of its intellectual property rights represent losses of revenue to the Company. The Company’s products and services are based in large part on proprietary technology, which it has sought to protect with patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which the Company’s products and services may be manufactured, marketed, distributed, sold or used. Moreover, despite the Company’s efforts, these measures only provide limited protection. Third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of the Company’s products or services or otherwise obtain and use its intellectual property without authorization. The Company cannot assure you that the protection of its proprietary rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not develop independently similar technology, duplicate the Company’s products or services or design around any of its patents or other intellectual property rights. The Company may become involved in costly and time-consuming patent litigation. Third parties could claim that the Company’s products or services infringe their patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. As new standards and technologies evolve, the Company believes that it may face an increasing number of third party claims relating to alleged patent infringements. Intellectual property litigation is time consuming and costly, diverts management resources and could result in the invalidation or impairment of the Company’s intellectual property rights. If litigation results in an unfavorable outcome, the Company could be subject to substantial damage claims and/or be required to cease production of infringing products, terminate its use of the infringing technology, develop non-infringing technology and/or obtain a license agreement to continue using the technology at issue. Such license agreements might not be available to the Company on acceptable terms, resulting in serious harm to its business. The Company may be liable to some of its customers for damages that they incur in connection with intellectual property claims. Although the Company attempts to limit its exposure to liability arising from infringement of third-party intellectual property rights in the Company’s license agreements with customers, it does not always succeed in obtaining the limitations it seeks. If the Company is required to pay damages to or incur liability on behalf of its customers, its business could be harmed. Moreover, even if a particular claim falls outside of the Company indemnity or warranty obligations, its customers may be entitled to additional contractual remedies against the Company, which could harm its business. Furthermore, even if the Company is not liable to its customers, its customers may stop buying its products or attempt to pass on to the Company the cost of any license fees or damages owed to third parties by reducing the amounts they pay for the Company’s products. Any of these results could harm the Company’s business. 17 The Company may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not effectively reduce its exposure. The Company’s operating results are subject to volatility resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including: · currency movements in which the U.S. dollar becomes stronger with respect to foreign currencies, thereby reducing relative demand for its products and services outside the United States; and · currency movements in which a foreign currency in which the Company has incurred expenses becomes stronger in relation to the U.S. dollar, thereby raising the Company’s expenses for the same level of operating activity. The Company’s stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could decline substantially. The price of the Company’s common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The price of its common stock could fluctuate significantly for any of the following reasons, among others: · fluctuations in the U.S. or world economy or general market conditions, as well as those specific to specific to the PC, CE and related industries; · future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors; · earnings announcements, quarterly variations in operating results, including variations due to one-time payments and other non-recurring revenues or costs that may result from certain customer relationships, as well as variations due to the timing of revenue recognition, including deferrals of revenue; · charges, amortization and other financial effects relating to any future acquisitions or divestitures; · introduction of new products or services or changes in product or service pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, or the entry of new competitors into the markets for digital media software or the digital distribution of premium content; · acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; · changes in earnings estimates by the Company or by independent analysts who cover it; · delay in delivery to market or acceptance of new products and services; · disclosure of material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or its disclosure controls and procedures or of other corporate governance issues; and/or · costs of litigation and intellectual property claims. In addition, stock markets in general, and those for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may impact adversely the market price of the Company’s common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Item 