Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and the trading price of our Common Stock. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as those in other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Matters relating to or arising from our stock option review, including litigation and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As described in the Explanatory Note Regarding Restatement and Change in Accounting Policy, Item 7,“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, on February 1, 2007, we announced we had commenced a voluntary review of our historical stock option grant practices and related accounting. We focused our review on the period from March 3, 1998, when we engaged in a general repricing of our then-outstanding underwater options, through the present. The review was initiated by our management and was conducted by the Audit Committee of our board of directors, comprised solely of independent directors, with the assistance of legal counsel and outside consultants. Based on the results of the review, we concluded that certain stock options granted during the Review Period were not correctly accounted for in accordance with GAAP at the time those grants were made. As a result, we are restating our historical financial statements to record adjustments for additional share-based compensation expense relating to past stock option grants in accordance with SFAS No. 123R and APB No. 25, and related payroll taxes, penalties, and other related amounts, to record additional share-based compensation expense associated with options granted to consultants. In addition, we also recorded other adjustments that were previously considered to be immaterial. Although we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the financial and tax impacts of this restatement, we cannot assure you that the SEC or IRS will agree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial and tax impacts. If the SEC or the IRS disagrees with our financial or tax adjustments or related disclosures and such disagreement results in material changes to our historical financial statements, we may be required to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other action that is not currently contemplated. To date, we have incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the review of our historical stock option granting practices and the related restatements, and may incur significant expenses in the future with respect to such matters, including litigation matters. As discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, five shareholder derivative lawsuits and two putative class actions have been filed against us, our current directors and officers and certain of our former directors and officers relating to our historical stock option practices and related accounting. We may become the subject of additional private or government actions regarding these matters in the future. These actions are in the preliminary stages, and their ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the price for our common stock. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits will result in significant expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. All or a portion of any amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these claims may also not be covered by insurance. If we do not regain and maintain compliance with the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Select Market, our common stock could be delisted, which could, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our shareholders. As a result of our review of our historical stock option granting practices and related restatements, we were unable to file our periodic reports with the SEC or solicit proxies and hold our annual meeting for fiscal year 2006. For these reasons, we are not in compliance with the listing requirements under the applicable Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We have undergone a review and hearing process pursuant to which Nasdaq has granted us extensions that offer us additional time to meet the applicable listing requirements. There can be no assurance that Nasdaq will continue to grant us any such extensions or exceptions from delisting. If our 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS securities are delisted from The Nasdaq Global Select Market, they would subsequently be transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau, or “Pink Sheets.” The trading of our common stock through the Pink Sheets might reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our shareholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock could materially and adversely affect our access to the capital markets and our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or to raise capital at all. Securities that trade through the Pink Sheets are not eligible for margin loans, and a company trading through the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or “blue sky” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. If we were to be delisted and transferred to the Pink Sheets, there could also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. Any and all of the foregoing consequences of delisting could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a result of review of our historical stock option granting practices and related restatements, we could be investigated by the SEC, the Department of Justice, the IRS or other governmental authority. With the exception of an ongoing IRS payroll tax audit, while we are not currently being investigated, it is possible that the SEC, Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the IRS or other governmental authority could initiate an investigation in connection with our historical stock option practices and related accounting. The period of time necessary to resolve any governmental investigations would be uncertain, and could require significant management and financial resources that could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business, as well as considerable legal and accounting expenses. If any governmental investigation resulted in an adverse finding against us or any of our current or former officers or directors, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the market price of our Common Stock. We may experience potential fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, face unpredictability of future revenue and incur losses in the future. The market for our products is characterized by rapid changes in technology. We may not accurately predict customer or business partner behavior and may not recognize or respond to emerging trends, changing preferences or competitive factors, and, therefore, we may fail to make accurate financial forecasts. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products and the PCs and CE devices with which our products are included; • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; • competitive pressures that result in pricing fluctuations; • variations in the timing of orders and shipments of our products; • changes in the mix of products and services we sell and the impact on our gross margins; • delays in our receipt of or cancellation of orders forecasted or placed by customers; • our ability to enter into or renew on favorable terms our licensing, distribution and other agreements; • costs associated with the defense or prosecution of, or adverse judgment arising from, litigation and intellectual property claims; and • economic conditions specific to the audio and video recording market, as well as to the related PC and CE markets. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although we were profitable for fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007, we have experienced one or more quarters in which we were not profitable, and you should not rely on the results for prior periods as an indication of future performance. Given the general uncertainty of market trends for professional and consumer audio and video products and related technology, we may not remain cash flow positive or generate net income in fiscal year 2008 or future years. Moreover, our operating expenses are based on our current expectations of our future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. We tend to generate a significant portion of quarterly revenues in the last month or last weeks of a quarter, and we generally do not know until quite late in a quarter whether we will achieve our sales expectations for the quarter. For our OEM licenses, we recognize revenues upon receipt of a royalty report from those OEMs. OEM royalty reports are sometimes incomplete, or are received on an unpredictable schedule. In some cases we determine that we need to perform additional review of reports prior to including the underlying royalties in revenues. Therefore, depending on the timing of receipt of royalty reports relative to quarterly cut-offs, our reported revenues may fluctuate and, in some cases, our reported operating results may be negatively impacted. If we have lower revenues than we expect, we may not be able to quickly reduce our spending in response. From time to time, we also may make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that adversely affect our revenues in a given quarterly or annual period. Any shortfall in our revenues would have a direct impact on our operating results for a particular quarter and this could affect the market price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Changes in our product and service offerings could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue, which could harm our operating results and adversely impact our ability to forecast revenue. Our products contain advanced features and functionality that may require us to provide increased levels of end-user support. As our products and services become more complex, we may also be obligated to provide additional support to our customers, which could require us to defer certain revenues to future periods, harm our short-term operating results and adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast revenue. Failure to successfully integrate any business we have acquired or may acquire in the future could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. The integration of a new business into our existing business is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. For example, our acquisition of the Roxio CSD in December 2004 involved the integration of operations and personnel located across the globe. Our November 2006 acquisition of SystemOK, a software company based in Gotenburg, Sweden, entailed the integration of operations and the implementation of additional procedures and policies to comply with Swedish legal requirements. If our management is unable to minimize the potential disruption to our business during the integration process, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized. Realizing the benefits of an acquisition will depend in part on the integration of technology, operations and personnel while maintaining adequate focus on our core businesses. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating various acquisitions, including but not limited to the following: • potential conflicts between business cultures; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse changes in business focus perceived by third parties such as customers, business partners and investors; • potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships; • inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • inability to integrate our research and development and product development efforts; • loss or termination of key employees, including costly litigation or settlements resulting from the termination of those employees; • disruptions among employees that may erode employee morale; 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS • undiscovered and unknown problems, defects or other issues related to any acquisition that become known to us only after the acquisition; and • negative reactions from our resellers and customers to an acquisition. Our operating expenses may increase significantly over the near term due to the increased headcount, expanded operations and expense or changes related to an acquisition. For example, we were not profitable for the third quarter of fiscal year 2005 primarily as a result of expenses of approximately $4.2 million incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Roxio CSD, including the write off of approximately $3.1 million for in-process research and development. To the extent that our expenses associated with an acquisition increase but our revenues do not, there are unanticipated expenses related to the integration process, or there are significant costs associated with presently unknown liabilities or other problems, our business, operating results and financial condition will be affected adversely. Failure to minimize the numerous risks associated with post-acquisition integration activities also may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our failure to manage our expansion may adversely affect us. Our business has expanded rapidly in the past several years, including the acquisitions of SystemOK and Roxio CSD. In general, the scope of our business has expanded both domestically and internationally, including the establishment of foreign subsidiaries and offices. Our success depends on our ability to effectively manage our global operations. Our management team faces challenges inherent in efficiently managing employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, controls, policies, benefits and compliance programs. Our inability to successfully manage the geographically more diverse and expanded organization, or any significant delay in implementing appropriate systems, controls, policies, benefits and compliance programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely manner to remain competitive. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product lives. The pursuit of necessary technological advances and the development of new products require substantial time and expense. To compete successfully in the markets in which we operate, we must develop and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. For example, our business involves digital audio and video formats, such as DVD-Video and DVD-Audio, and, more recently, recordable DVD formats including DVD-RAM, DVD-R/RW, and DVD+RW. Currently, there is extensive activity in our industry targeting the introduction and adoption of new, high definition, formats. To the extent that competing new formats remain incompatible, consumer adoption may be delayed and we may be required to expend additional resources to support multiple formats. We expend significant time and effort to develop new products in compliance with these new formats. To the extent there is a delay in the implementation or adoption of these formats, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a further example, we have expended significant time and effort to adapt certain of our products to be compatible with Microsoft’s Windows Vista operating system. As new industry standards, technologies and formats are introduced, there may be limited sources for the intellectual property rights and background technologies necessary for implementation, and the initial prices that we may negotiate in an effort to bring our products to market may prove to be higher than those ultimately offered to other licensees, putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, if new formats and technologies prove to be unsuccessful or are not accepted for any reason, there may be limited demand for our products. We cannot assure you that the products we are currently developing or intend to develop will achieve feasibility or that even if we are successful, the developed product will be accepted by the market. We may not be able to recover the costs of existing and future product development and our failure to do so may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or more of these customers could materially harm our operating results, business and financial condition. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, approximately 23% of our revenue was derived from revenue recognized on licensing agreements with Dell, and approximately 9% and 13% of our revenue for 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS fiscal 2007 was derived from revenue recognized on retail agreements from two national and international distributors, Ingram and Navarre, respectively. In addition, during our fiscal 2007, approximately 20% of our revenue was derived from revenue recognized on our reseller agreement with Digital River. On various occasions, Dell has made changes to its website that have reduced the rates at which Dell customers have purchased upgraded versions of our software. In such instances, we have worked cooperatively with Dell to increase our upgrade rates and to compensate us for losses in revenues based on such Dell website changes. While we believe that we have successfully negotiated appropriate terms with Dell to address these factors, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully insulate ourselves from Dell corporate website decisions which could affect adversely sales of our consumer products to Dell customers. We anticipate that the relationships with Dell, Ingram, Navarre and Digital River will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the future. Any changes in our relationships with any of these customers, including any actual or alleged breach of the agreements by either party or the early termination of, or any other material change in, any of the agreements could seriously harm our operating results, business, and financial condition. Additionally, a decrease or interruption in any of the above-mentioned businesses or their demand for our products or a delay in our development agreements with any one of them could cause a significant decrease in our revenue. Also, we may not succeed in attracting new customers, as many of our potential customers have pre-existing relationships with our current or potential competitors. To attract new customers, we may be faced with intense price competition, which may affect our gross margins. We are subject to risks associated with international operations that may harm our business. We depend on sales to customers outside the United States, in particular in Europe and Japan. Revenue derived from customers in these areas accounted for approximately 23%, 23% and 22% of our revenues in fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. International sales historically have ranged from approximately 20% to slightly less than 50% of our total sales. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any adverse international political, economic or geographic events could result in significant revenue shortfalls, which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not effectively reduce our exposure. Our operating results are subject to volatility resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Also, as a result of recent acquisitions, particularly the Roxio CSD acquisition, as well as our general objective to increase our international capabilities, we have a greater international presence than before. As of March 31, 2007, we have nine major locations (defined as location with more than 15 employees) and employ approximately 371 employees outside the United States. Our management team faces the challenge of efficiently managing and integrating our international operations. Our increased international operations and dependence on foreign customers expose us to additional risks, including, but not limited to: • currency movements in which the U.S. dollar becomes stronger with respect to foreign currencies, thereby reducing relative demand for our products and services outside the United States; • currency movements in which a foreign currency in which we incur expenses becomes stronger in relation to the U.S. dollar, thereby raising our expenses for the same level of operating activity; • import and export restrictions and duties, including tariffs, quotas, and other barriers; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, foreign regulatory requirements, such as safety or radio frequency emissions regulations; • liquidity problems in various foreign markets; • uncertainties and liabilities associated with foreign tax laws; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more stringent consumer and data protection laws; 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, foreign legislative or regulatory requirements; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations; • potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. law; • political and economic instability; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. We invest in highly-rated (AAA/Aaa) auction rate securities which are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect our liquidity. We invest in highly-rated (AAA/Aaa) auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are variable-rate debt instruments with longer stated maturities whose interest rates are reset at predetermined short-term intervals through a Dutch auction system. If the auctions for the securities we own fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these investments is successful. In such an event, we may be required to reclassify these investments from short-term to long-term. Additionally, if the credit rating of either the security issuer or the third-party insurer underlying the investments deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. We may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute our existing shareholders’ ownership and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of our efforts to enhance our existing products and services, introduce new products and services, grow our business and remain competitive, we have pursued, and we may pursue in the future, acquisitions of companies, products and technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Future acquisitions by us could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations, business, financial condition and/or the price of our stock: • difficulties and delays in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products, services, business relationships and information and other systems of the acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentages of ownership; • large one-time write-offs; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • contractual and/or intellectual property disputes; • difficulties caused by entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • the acquired company not achieving anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity; and • poor receipt by the investment community. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our product prices may decline, which could harm our operating results. The market for our software is intensely competitive. It is likely that prices for our OEM products will decline due to competitive pricing pressures from other software providers, competition in the PC and CE industries and concentration among OEM customers resulting in their having strong negotiating positions relative to us. In addition, we now derive a substantial portion of our revenue from retail sales, which also are subject to significant competitive pricing pressures. We may experience additional pricing pressures in other parts of our business. These trends could make it more difficult for us to increase or maintain our revenue and may cause a decline in our gross and/or operating profits. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for our manufacturing makes us vulnerable to supplier operational problems. Manufacturing for our consumer software products is outsourced using HP Software Publishing as our primary supplier. HP Software Publishing provides services such as parts procurement, parts warehousing, product assembly and supply chain services. These services are provided to us from two primary HP locations: Nashua, New Hampshire, servicing North America; and Galway, Ireland, servicing Europe. Production services and supply chain logistics for Asia and the Pacific Rim are serviced by ModusLink, Taipei. HP and ModusLink are non-exclusive suppliers to us. Any disruption in the operations of these suppliers, or any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacturing and distributing our products and may adversely impact our operating results. Moreover, if these suppliers cease to perform or fail to perform as we expect, there is no guarantee that we would be able to engage a substitute supplier in a timely manner or at all or under terms and conditions acceptable to us. Because a large portion of our net revenue is from OEM customers, the potential success of our products is tied to the success of their product sales. A substantial portion of our consumer revenue is derived from sales through OEM customers of copies of our software bundled with their products. Temporary fluctuations in the pricing and availability of the OEM customers’ products could impact negatively sales of our products, which could in turn harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, increased sales of our consumer products to OEMs depend in large part on consumer acceptance and purchase of DVD players, DVD recorders and other digital media devices marketed by our OEM customers in PCs, CE devices, or on a stand-alone basis. Consumer acceptance of these digital media devices depends significantly on the price and ease of use of these devices, among other factors. If alternative technology emerges or if the demand for moving, managing and storing digital content is less than expected, this market may decline, which may affect adversely sales of our consumer products to our OEM customers. In addition, some of the materials, components and/or software included in the end products sold by our OEM customers, who also incorporate our products, are obtained from a limited group of suppliers. Supply disruptions, shortages, quality issues or termination of any of these sources could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations due to the delay or discontinuance of orders for our products by our OEM customers until those necessary materials, components or software are available for their own products. Moreover, if OEM customers do not ship as many units as forecasted or if there is a general decrease in their unit sales, our net revenue will generally be impacted adversely and we may be less profitable than forecasted, or even become unprofitable. Furthermore, we rely on reports prepared by OEM customers to determine the results of our sales of products through these OEM customers. If the OEM customers prepare inaccurate or substandard sales reports, we may be required to take corrective actions, including auditing current and prior reports. Such corrective actions may result in a negative impact on our business or our reported results. For example, we could conclude that our prior reported net revenue and related results may be less than previously reported. Changes in requirements or business models of our OEM customers may affect negatively our financial results. OEM customers can be quite demanding with respect to the features they demand in software products they bundle, quality and testing requirements, and economic terms. Because there are a relatively small number of significant OEM customers, if they demand reduced prices for our products, we may not be in a 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS position to refuse such demands, which could impact negatively our revenues and results of operations. If particular OEMs demand certain products or product features that we are unable to deliver, or if they impose higher quality requirements than we are able to satisfy, we could lose those relationships, which likely would damage our revenues and our results of operations. Also, if our competitors offer our OEM customers more favorable terms than we do or if our competitors are able to take advantage of their existing relationships with these OEMs, then these OEMs may not include our software with their products. Our OEM relationships serve an important role in distributing our software to end-users and positioning the market for upgrades to our more fully featured software products. Our business will suffer if we are unable to maintain or expand our relationships with OEMs. We rely on distributors, resellers and retailers to sell our products, and disruptions to these channels would affect adversely our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. The portion of our revenue derived from sales of software to end-users via retail channels through our network of national and international distributors and resellers has increased during recent years, and we anticipate that this trend will continue. There are currently two distributors that account for a significant portion of sales of our consumer software. Any decrease in revenue from these distributors or the loss of one of these distributors and our inability to find a satisfactory replacement in a timely manner could affect our operating results adversely. Moreover, our failure to maintain favorable arrangements with our distributors and resellers may adversely impact our business. For example, our distributors and resellers and the retailers who sell our software to the public also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our distributors, resellers or retailers more favorable terms, those distributors, resellers or retailers may de-emphasize, fail to recommend or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified distributors, resellers or retailers. If our distributors, resellers or retailers attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be impacted negatively. Further, if we reduce the prices of our products, we may have to compensate our distributors, resellers or retailers for the difference between the higher price they paid to buy their inventory and the new lower prices of our products. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of product returns from distributors, resellers or retailers through their exercise of contractual return rights. If direct sales to customers through our own web-based channels increase, our distributors, resellers and retailers may suffer decreased sales as a consequence. These changes may cause our distributors, resellers or retailers to cease distribution of our products or seek more favorable terms, either of which could seriously harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights we may not be able to market our products successfully. Unlicensed copying and use of our intellectual property or illegal infringements of our intellectual property rights represent losses of revenue to our company. Our products are based in large part on proprietary technology which we have sought to protect with patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. For example, we have many patents and pending applications for additional patents in the United States and in foreign countries. We also make significant efforts to acquire trademark protection for the names and brands of our software products, services and unique product features. In addition, we make extensive use of trade secrets, which we may not be able to protect adequately. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products may be manufactured, marketed, distributed, sold or used. Moreover, despite our efforts, these measures only provide limited protection. Third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. To the extent that we use patents to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to obtain needed patents or, if granted, the patents may be held invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Patent protection throughout the world is generally established on a country-by-country basis. Failure to obtain patents or failure to enforce those patents that are obtained may result in a loss of revenue to us. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not develop independently similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property rights. Our business could be harmed seriously if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology adequately, if there are changes in applicable laws that are adverse to our interests, or if we 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS become involved in legal proceedings relating to our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology or relating to the intellectual property rights of others. To the extent we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, competitors also may enter the market offering products substantially similar or identical to ours, which likely would have a negative impact on sales of our products. Other companies’ intellectual property rights may interfere with our current or future product development and sales. We have never conducted a comprehensive patent search relating to our business models or the technology we use in our products or services. There may be issued or pending patents owned by third parties that relate to our business models, products or services. If so, we could incur substantial costs defending against patent infringement claims or we could even be blocked from engaging in certain business endeavors or selling our products or services. Other companies may succeed in obtaining valid patents covering one or more of our business models or key aspects of our products or services. If so, we may be forced to obtain required licenses or implement alternative non-infringing approaches. Our products are designed to comply with industry standards, such as DVD-ROM, DVD-Video, DVD-Audio and MPEG video. A number of companies and organizations hold various patents that claim to cover various aspects of DVD, MPEG and other relevant technology. We have entered into license agreements with certain companies and organizations relative to some of these technologies. For instance, we have entered into license agreements with Dolby’s licensing affiliate covering Dolby Digital Audio, with MPEG-LA (see “We may become involved in costly and time-consuming patent litigation” below) covering various aspects of MPEG-2 video compression technology, and with Thomson/Fraunhofer covering various aspects of MPEG-2 layer 3 (MP3) audio compression technology, among others. Such license agreements may not be sufficient to grant us all of the intellectual property rights necessary to manufacture, market and sell our products. We may become involved in costly and time-consuming patent litigation. We face risks associated with our patent position, including the potential need to engage in significant legal proceedings to enforce our patents, the possibility that the validity or enforceability of our patents may be denied, the possibility that third parties will be able to compete against us without infringing our patents and the possibility that our products or services may infringe patent rights of third parties. Budgetary concerns may cause us not to file or continue litigation against known infringers of our patent rights. Failure to reliably enforce our patent rights against infringers could make licensing more difficult. Third parties could pursue us claiming that our business models, products or services infringe various patents. For example, a group of companies have formed an organization called MPEG LA to enforce the rights of holders of patents covering aspects of MPEG technology. Although we have entered into an agreement with MPEG LA, that agreement may not prevent third parties not represented by MPEG LA from asserting that we infringe a patent covering some aspects of MPEG technology. In addition, as new standards and technologies evolve and as our relative commercial presence expands, we believe that we may face an increasing number of third party claims relating to patent infringements and potential patent infringements over time. Patent infringement litigation can be time consuming and costly, may divert management resources and could result in the invalidation of our intellectual property rights. If such litigation resulted in an unfavorable outcome for us, we could be subject to substantial damage claims and/or be required to cease production of infringing products, terminate our use of infringing technology, develop non-infringing technology and/or obtain a license agreement to continue using the technology at issue. Such license agreements might not be available to us on acceptable terms, resulting in serious harm to our business. Our use of technology asserted to be infringing could result in liability that threatens our continuing operations. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be liable to some of our customers for damages that they incur in connection with intellectual property claims. Although we attempt to limit our exposure to liability arising from infringement of third-party intellectual property rights in our license agreements with customers, we do not always succeed in obtaining the limitations we seek. If we are required to pay damages to or incur liability on behalf of our customers, our business could be harmed. Moreover, even if a particular claim falls outside of our indemnity or warranty obligations to our customers, our customers may be entitled to additional contractual remedies against us, which could harm our business. Furthermore, even if we are not liable to our customers, our customers may stop buying our products or attempt to pass on to us the cost of any license fees or damages owed to third parties by reducing the amounts they pay for our products. Any of these results could harm our business. Some of our competitors possess greater technological and financial resources than we do, may produce better or more cost-effective products than ours and may be more effective than we are in marketing and promoting their products. There is a substantial risk that competing companies will produce better or more cost-effective products, or will be better equipped than we are to promote products in the marketplace. A number of companies have announced or are delivering products that compete with our products. These companies include Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Computer Inc., ArcSoft Inc., BHA Group, Inc., Corel Corporation’s subsidiary, CyberLink Corp., Nero, AG, Network Technologies Incorporated, or NTI, Avid Technology’s Pinnacle Systems subsidiary. Many of these companies have greater financial and technological resources than we do. Because our products are designed to comply with industry standards, to the extent that we cannot distinguish our products from those produced by our competitors, our current distributors and customers may choose alternate products or choose to purchase products from multiple vendors. We may be unable to compete effectively if we cannot produce products more quickly or at lower cost than our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that the industry standards on which we develop new products will allow us to compete effectively with companies possessing greater financial and technological resources than we have to market, promote and exploit sales opportunities as they arise in the future. Products that are designed to comply with standards may be viewed as interchangeable commodities by our customers. Additionally, accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require significant expenditures for research and development that could affect adversely our operating results. Further, any new products we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner or in advance of our competitors’ products and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. Revenue derived from our professional DVD products and services has declined in recent years and may continue to decline. We have experienced revenue declines in the professional segment and, absent the introduction and market acceptance of new formats such as Blu-ray Disc, we expect such declines to continue. Professional DVD facilities began equipping to prepare DVD titles as early as 1997, and significant expansion of DVD creation capacity occurred from 1998 to 2000. Although the number of DVD discs replicated will continue to grow in future years, we do not expect that the number of titles published will expand as dramatically; hence we do not expect that DVD production facilities will increase the rate of their capacity expansion. Instead, they may decrease the rate of their expansion resulting in a lower level of sales for us. We may encounter significant challenges as our business depends increasingly on sales of consumer products. We anticipate that our business will depend increasingly on sales of consumer products to generate additional revenue and grow our business, and that we will be subject to risks due to changing consumer demands, extensive competition that may result in price erosion, product liability litigation and/or product warranty concerns. The general pattern associated with consumer products that we develop is one of higher sales and revenue during the winter holiday season. If we fail to achieve these higher sales and revenues our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS Success in our consumer segment depends upon our ability to enhance and distinguish our existing products, introduce new competitive products with features that meet changing consumer requirements, and control our inventory levels, to minimize impact of sudden price decreases. Moreover, our success depends on our ability to effectively sell our products in the consumer market. We sell our consumer products through bundling arrangements with our OEM customers, through direct channels (for example, our web store), as well as through retail (both physical and web-based) channels. We may not have the capital required or the necessary personnel or expertise to develop and enhance these distribution channels. If we do spend the capital required to develop and maintain these distribution channels, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful or profitable. Moreover, some of our non-OEM revenue opportunities are fragmented and take more time and effort to establish and maintain. Also, some of our competitors have well-established retail distribution capabilities and existing brands with market acceptance that provide them with a significant competitive advantage. If we are not successful in overcoming these challenges our business and results of operations may be harmed. With the growth in the Internet as a medium to download and purchase software, we expect to face increasing competition from smaller software providers. The increasing popularity of the Internet as a medium to purchase software is enabling smaller software providers to distribute products with minimal upfront costs or resources. In the past, a substantial barrier to entry into the packaged software market for small-scale providers has been the need to manufacture, package and distribute software through a retail or commercial distribution chain. To the extent consumers increasingly purchase software over the Internet, we expect to face increased competition from small software development companies and programmers worldwide. Online software distribution has certain inherent advantages over physically packaged software, such as the reduction or elimination of manufacturing, packaging, shipping and inventory costs. New entrants that have business models focused on Internet distribution may have more favorable cost structures than companies such as ours that employ a multi-channel distribution network, which could give those competitors cost savings, pricing and profitability advantages. Our revolving credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our revolving credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, incur certain liens, or merge or consolidate with other businesses. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. We cannot assure you that these covenants will not hinder our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. We have been in violation of certain covenants set forth in our credit facility in the past and have successfully obtained waivers from the lender. There can be no assurance that, in the event of future violations, we will continue to be able to obtain such waivers. If a default occurs, the lender could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Currently, the borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. Further, we may require additional capital in the future to expand our business operations, acquire businesses or replenish cash expended sooner than anticipated. Our current revolving credit facility may restrict us from obtaining additional capital or such additional capital may not otherwise be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We may be unable to utilize loss carry forwards in the future. We have recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation reserves, of $2.3 million related to net operating loss carryforwards, $0.6 million of which we obtained through our acquisition of InterActual Technologies, Inc. The acquired federal net operating loss carry forwards are subject to annual use limitations under Code Section 382. The majority of our net operating loss carryforwards expire between 2011 and 2020. We may not be able to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our web store makes us vulnerable to third party operational problems and other risks. We currently make our products available through web-based retail sites in North America, Europe, and Japan. These web-based retail sites are operated by third party resellers. Under these arrangements, our reseller partners typically utilize co-branded sites, provide the infrastructure to handle purchase transactions through their secure web sites, and deliver the product (whether via web download or physical fulfillment). We sometimes refer to such organizations as “Outsourcers.” Our web store operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems, diversion of sales from other channels, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, and issues relating to the use and protection of customer information. We rely on our Outsourcers for smooth operation of our web store. Since our web store sales constituted approximately 20% of our revenue in fiscal year 2007, any interruption of an Outsourcer’s service to us could have a negative effect on our business. If our Outsourcers were to withdraw from this business or change their terms of service in ways that were unfavorable to us, there might not be a ready alternative outsourcing organization available to us, and we might be unprepared to assume operation of the web store ourselves. If any of these events occurs, our results of operations would be harmed. Undetected errors or failures found in our products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could seriously harm our reputation and business. Our products may contain undetected software errors or failures, especially when first introduced or as new versions are released, and we may need to modify significantly our products to correct these errors. Failure to achieve acceptance could result in a delay in, or inability to, receive payment. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased service and warranty costs and related litigation expenses and potential liability to third parties, any of which could harm our business. Our executive officers and other key personnel are critical to our business, and because there is significant competition for personnel in our industry, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team, and our technical, marketing, sales, customer support and product development personnel. However, the competition for personnel is intense and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of key individuals or significant numbers of such personnel could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any life insurance or other insurance covering the loss of any of our key employees. Our stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could decline substantially. The price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for any of the following reasons, among others: • future announcements concerning us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results, including variations due to one-time payments and other non-recurring revenues that may result from certain customer relationships, as well as variations due to the timing of revenue recognition, including deferrals of revenue; • charges, amortization and other financial effects relating to any future acquisitions or divestitures; • introduction of new products or services or changes in product or service pricing policies by us or our competitors, or the entry of new competitors into the digital media software markets; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • changes in earnings estimates by us or by independent analysts who cover us; • issuances of stock under our current or any future shelf registration statement; 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS • fluctuations in the U.S. or world economy or general market conditions, as well as those specific to specific to the PC, CE and related industries; • delay in delivery to market or acceptance of new products; • disclosure of material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures or of other corporate governance issues; • costs of litigation and intellectual property claims, including the legal costs incurred to protect our intellectual property rights and settlement of claims based upon our violation or alleged violation of others’ intellectual property rights; and/or • impact of our stock option review and the related employee share-based compensation expense on our earnings per share. In addition, stock markets in general, and those for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may impact adversely the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. In the past, shareholders of various companies often have instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. In any such lawsuit, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. Failure to comply with internal control attestation requirements could lead to loss of public confidence in our financial statements and negatively impact our stock price. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including Section 404 thereof, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. We will continue to incur costs and use management resources to comply with Section 404 and other requirements. In order to satisfy these evolving corporate governance and financial disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and procedures, including disclosure and internal controls, and related corporate governance policies and procedures to address compliance issues and correct any deficiencies that we may discover. For example, pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have undertaken a comprehensive and costly evaluation of our internal controls. As a result of our evaluation, performed on the basis of the Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) criteria, management has identified a material weakness in our financial reporting for fiscal 2007, and has concluded that, based on the specified criteria, we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2007. See “Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” at Item 9A. We anticipate the costs associated with the testing and evaluation of our internal controls will continue to be significant in fiscal year 2008 and may continue to be significant in future fiscal years as these controls are maintained and continually evaluated and tested. Furthermore, changes in our operations and growth of our business complexity have required us to modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and related corporate governance policies. Any future acquisitions and other changes in our operations likely will require us to revise further our disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and related corporate governance policies. In addition, the new and changed laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws and regulations differ from the conduct intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities or varying interpretations of the law, we could be subject to regulatory inquiries and/or sanctions, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Qualifying and supporting our products on multiple computer platforms is time consuming and expensive. We devote significant time and resources to qualify and support our software products on various computer platforms, including Microsoft and Apple operating systems. To the extent that any qualified and supported platform is modified or upgraded, or we need to qualify and support a new platform, we could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which may add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We are vulnerable to earthquakes, labor issues and other unexpected events. Our corporate headquarters, as well as the majority of our research and development activities, are located in California and China, both of which are areas known for seismic activity. An earthquake or other disaster could result in an interruption in our business. Our business also may be impacted by labor issues related to our operations and/or those of our suppliers, distributors or customers. Such an interruption could harm our operating results. We are not likely to have sufficient insurance to compensate adequately for losses that we may sustain as a result of any natural disasters or other unexpected events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 