ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------- Our business faces many risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K. GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Higher interest rates, fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the merchandise we offer. Additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect our financial performance. High levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws and other adverse developments in the economy may also adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise, adversely affect gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. INFLATIONARY PRESSURES, INCLUDING RISING ENERGY PRICES, MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation on our operations, we believe our sales and results of operations have been affected by inflation. We are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, soybean and other commodities as well as transportation services. Moreover, in the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for our business and utility costs for our stores. We have been successful in reducing or mitigating the effects of inflation, principally through selective buying from the most competitive vendors and by increasing retail prices. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in reducing or mitigating the effect of inflation in the future. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO INCREASE SALES AT OUR EXISTING STORES. We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed twelve months of sales, excluding relocated stores. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores. Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. Past same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sales will not decrease in the future. Any failure to meet the same-store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could adversely affect our results of operations and result in a reduction in the market price of our common stock. OUR FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE GROWTH COULD IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS. Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business strategy of expanding our store base, we may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or 6 negatively impact our cash flow. To manage our planned expansion, we must ensure the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable. FAILURE TO OPEN NEW STORES IN THE MANNER CURRENTLY CONTEMPLATED COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. An integral part of our key business strategy includes the expansion of our base of stores by opening new stores. If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. To the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to unforeseen delays in construction or site approval), our sales growth would be impaired. Any failure to meet the growth expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our stock. COMPETITION IN OUR INDUSTRY MAY HINDER OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from general merchandise, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche. However, we do face competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, several privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. Some of our competitors are units of national or regional chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources. WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. In recent years, we have experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including ice storms, floods and wind damage, hurricanes and a summer dearth of water and pasture in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for petroleum products, particularly during the winter heating season. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THERE ARE CERTAIN RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SEASONAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS. Our working capital needs and borrowings generally peak in our first fiscal quarter because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred in preparation for the spring selling season. If cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities are ever insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or if cash flow generated during the spring and summer is insufficient to repay associated borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH VENDORS FROM WHOM OUR PRODUCTS ARE SOURCED. The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors. Foreign sourcing of many of the products sold is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our vendors must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting required vendor standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified vendors that meet our standards, and access products in a timely and efficient manner are significant challenges, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. These and other issues affecting our vendors, including merchandise quality and financial instability of suppliers, could adversely affect our financial performance. WE FACE RISKS RELATING TO OUR RELIANCE ON FOREIGN SUPPLIERS. We rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources. We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no long-term contracts with such suppliers. Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones. This reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in United States laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution. As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products. If any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries 7 undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. OUR FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees. Our ability to meet labor needs generally while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely affected. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY AND OTHER CLAIMS IN THE ORDINARY COURSE OF BUSINESS. Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. We maintain general liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible for each occurrence and a $6,000,000 aggregate retention. We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general and products liability cover. In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance. Our ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim. We cannot assure that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers' indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us. IF WE EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES WITH OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS, OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business. We could be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued significant increases in the number of our stores. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR PRODUCT INNOVATIONS AND MARKETING SUCCESSES WILL CONTINUE. We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to continue to improve existing product offerings through product innovation and to market new products. There is no assurance that we will be successful in the introduction and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or that innovations to existing product offerings will be introduced in a timely manner to satisfy our customers' needs or expectations. Failure to introduce new products successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on results of our operations and financial condition. Additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for products and supplies used in recreational farming and ranching. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns. Shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ------- None. 