Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements contained in this filing on Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words or phrases "would be," "will allow," "intends to," "will likely result," "are expected to," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimate," "project," or similar expressions are also intended to identify "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. MFB cautions readers that forward-looking statements, including without limitation those relating to MFB's future business prospects, interest income and expense, net income, liquidity, and capital needs are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to, among other things, factors identified in this filing, including the following: Regulatory changes could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The banking industry is heavily regulated. These regulations are intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. As discussed in this Form 10-K, MFB and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, the OTS, and the SEC. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Legislative actions or significant litigation could adversely impact us or the clients we serve. Because of concerns relating to the competitiveness and the safety and soundness of the industry, Congress continues to consider a number of wide-ranging proposals for altering the structure, regulation, and competitive relationships of the nation's financial institutions. Among such bills are proposals to combine banks and thrifts under a unified charter, to combine regulatory agencies, and to make changes to deposit insurance protection of depositors. Management cannot predict whether or in what form any of these proposals will be adopted or the extent to which the business of the MFB and its subsidiaries may be affected thereby. We must effectively manage credit risk to reduce the possibility of potential losses. One of the greatest risks facing lenders is credit risk, that is, the risk of losing principal and interest due to a borrower's failure to perform according to the terms of a loan agreement. While management attempts to provide an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to cover probable incurred losses based on loan portfolio growth, past loss experience, general economic conditions, information about specific borrower situations, and other factors, future adjustments to reserves may become necessary, and net income could be significantly affected, if circumstances differ substantially from assumptions used with respect to such factors. Our commercial and consumer loans expose us to increased credit risk. We have a large percentage of commercial and consumer loans. Commercial loans generally have greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans also typically have much larger loan balances than residential mortgage loans. Consumer loans generally involve greater risk than residential mortgage loans because they are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate in value. Although we undertake a variety of underwriting, monitoring and reserving protections with respect to these types of loans, there can be no guarantee that we will not suffer unexpected losses. Changes in local economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings and those of our borrowers. MFB's primary market area for deposits and loans encompasses St. Joseph and Elkhart Counties, in northwest Indiana. Ninety-five percent of MFB's business activities are within this area. This concentration exposes MFB to risks resulting from changes in the local economy. A dramatic drop in local real estate values would, for example, adversely affect the quality of MFB Financial's loan portfolio. Changes in interest rate risk could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. MFB's earnings depend to a great extent upon the level of net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that the earnings and capital will be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. While MFB attempts to adjust its asset/liability mix in order to limit the magnitude of interest rate risk, interest rate risk management is not an exact science. Rather, it involves estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact the yields earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities. Moreover, rate changes can vary depending upon the level of rates and competitive factors. From time to time, maturities of assets and liabilities are not balanced, and a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on net interest margins and results of operations of MFB. Further discussion of interest rate risk can be found under the caption "Asset/Liability Management" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of MFB's 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders. Our market is extremely competitive and our earnings will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. The activities of MFB and MFB Financial in the geographic market served involve competition with other banks as well as with other financial institutions and enterprises, many of which have substantially greater resources than those available to MFB. In addition, non-bank competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation applicable to the MFB and MFB Financial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 