Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Bankruptcy We are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 and CCAA proceedings. We continue to operate our business as debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Courts and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, the CCAA and orders of the Bankruptcy Courts. As a result, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 cases and CCAA proceedings which include, among other things: • our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with customers, vendors and service providers and maintain contracts and leases that are critical to our operations; 25 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain needed approval of the applicable Bankruptcy Court for transactions outside of the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond on a timely basis to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities; • limitations on our ability to obtain applicable Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 cases and CCAA proceedings that we may seek from time to time or potentially adverse decisions by the Bankruptcy Courts with respect to such motions, including due to the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties, who may oppose our plans or who may seek to require us to take actions that we oppose; • limitations on our ability to avoid or reject contracts or leases that are burdensome or uneconomical; • limitations on our ability to raise capital to satisfy claims, including our potential need to sell assets in order to satisfy claims against us; • our ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel, which is restricted by the Bankruptcy Code that, among other things, limits our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate employees to remain with the Company; and • our loss of control and subsequent deconsolidation of the Canadian Debtors. These risks and uncertainties could negatively affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, events or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 and CCAA proceedings could adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if such proceedings are protracted. As a result of our bankruptcy filings and the other matters described herein, including the uncertainties related to the fact that we have not yet had time to complete and obtain confirmation of a plan of reorganization, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern, including our ability to meet our ongoing operational obligations, is dependent upon, among other things: (i) our ability to maintain adequate cash on hand; (ii) our ability to generate cash from operations; (iii) the cost, duration and outcome of the restructuring process; (iv) our ability to comply with the terms of our existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility and the adequate assurance provisions of the Cash Collateral Order and (v) our ability to achieve profitability following a restructuring. These challenges are in addition to those operational and competitive challenges that we face in connection with our business. Accordingly, trading in our securities during the pendency of our Chapter 11 and CCAA proceedings is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. These risks include extremely volatile trading prices. In addition, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceeding, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in our common stock and certain securities, including options, convertible into our common stock, and has also provided the potentially retroactive application of notice and sell-down procedures for trading in claims against the U.S. Debtors’ estates (in the event that such procedures are approved in the future). Holders of our securities, especially holders of our common stock, may not be able to resell such securities and, in connection with our reorganization, may have their securities cancelled and in return receive no payment or other consideration, or a payment or other consideration that is less than the par value or the purchase price of such securities. We may not be able to confirm or consummate a plan of reorganization. In order to successfully emerge from our Chapter 11 cases as a viable company, we must develop, obtain requisite U.S. Bankruptcy Court and creditor approval of, and consummate a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. This process requires us to meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure regarding a plan of reorganization, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptances of a plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm a plan of reorganization. Even if the requisite acceptances to a plan of reorganization are received, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the plan. In addition, even if a plan of reorganization is confirmed, we may not be able to consummate such plan. Our ability to confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization will depend primarily upon the operational performance of our power generation facilities, movements in power and natural gas prices over time, our marketing and risk management activities, and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. 26 Table of Contents If a plan of reorganization is not confirmed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, or if we are unable to successfully consummate a plan after confirmation, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against us ultimately would receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as an economically viable, reorganized entity. On December 6, 2006, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court granted our application for an extension of the period during which we have the exclusive right to file a reorganization plan or plans from December 31, 2006 to June 20, 2007, and granted us the exclusive right until August 20, 2007, to solicit acceptance thereof. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court has the power to terminate these periods prior to June 20, 2007, and August 20, 2007, respectively, and we can make no assurance that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court will not do so. As the Bankruptcy Code currently provides for a maximum exclusivity period of 18 months and 20 months, respectively, to file and solicit acceptance of a plan or plans of reorganization, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court would grant any further extension of those periods. Our filings under Chapter 11 and the CCAA have exposed certain of our Non-Debtor subsidiaries to the potential exercise of rights and remedies by debt or equity holders. Our filings under Chapter 11 and the CCAA and constraints on our business during the proceedings have resulted in (and could result in additional) defaults under certain project loan agreements of Non-Debtor subsidiaries. These filings and limitations on the ability of certain of the Calpine Debtor subsidiaries to make payments under intercompany agreements with Non-Debtor subsidiaries have resulted in defaults or potential defaults under debt or preferred equity interests issued by or certain lease obligations of certain of those Non-Debtor subsidiaries. Absent cure, waiver or other resolution in respect of these defaults from the applicable creditors or equity holders, we may not be able to prevent the acceleration of the subsidiary debt or lease obligations and the exercise of other remedies against the subsidiaries, including a sale of the equity or assets of such subsidiaries, a termination of the leasehold rights or the enforcement of buy-out rights or other remedies. While we have been able to obtain waivers with respect to certain defaults, we may not be able to extend such waivers and forbearances. If we are unable to obtain waivers or extend current waivers or make other arrangements with respect to current or future defaults, if any, under debt, preferred equity or leases of Non-Debtor subsidiaries, such Non-Debtor subsidiaries may be adversely affected, or the holders of debt or equity of such Non-Debtor subsidiaries may take actions or exercise remedies, including sales of the assets of such Non-Debtor subsidiaries, which may cause adverse effects to our financial condition or results of operations as a whole. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity in connection with our restructuring, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carryforwards of approximately $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2006. Our ability to deduct NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of our Chapter 11 cases. During the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceeding, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in our common stock or certain securities, including options, convertible into our common stock. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court has also provided the potentially retroactive application of notice and sell-down procedures for trading in claims against the U.S. Debtors’ estates (in the event that such procedures are approved in the future). However these limitations may not prevent an “ownership change” and our ability to utilize our net loss carryforwards may be significantly limited as a result of our reorganization. Bankruptcy laws may limit our secured creditors’ ability to realize value from their collateral. Upon the commencement of a case for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, a secured creditor is prohibited from repossessing its security from a debtor in a bankruptcy case, or from disposing of security repossessed from such debtor, without bankruptcy court approval. Moreover, the Bankruptcy Code generally permits the debtor to continue to retain and use collateral even though the debtor is in default under the applicable debt instruments, provided that the secured creditor is given “adequate protection.” The meaning of the term “adequate protection” may vary according to circumstances, but it is intended in general to protect the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral and may include cash payments or the granting of additional security if and at such times as the 27 Table of Contents bankruptcy court in its discretion determines that the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral is declining during the pendency of the Chapter 11 case. A bankruptcy court may determine that a secured creditor may not require compensation for a diminution in the value of its collateral if the value of the collateral exceeds the debt it secures. In view of the lack of a precise definition of the term “adequate protection” and the broad discretionary power of a bankruptcy court, it is impossible to predict: • how long payments under our secured debt could be delayed as a result of our filings under Chapter 11; • whether or when secured creditors (or their applicable agents) could repossess or dispose of collateral; • the value of the collateral; or • whether and to what extent secured creditors would be compensated for any delay in payment or loss of value of the collateral through the requirement of “adequate protection.” In addition, the instruments governing certain of our indebtedness provide that the secured creditors (or their applicable agents) may not object to a number of important matters following the filing of a bankruptcy petition. Accordingly, it is possible that the value of the collateral securing our indebtedness could materially deteriorate and secured creditors would be unable to raise an objection. Furthermore, if the U.S. Bankruptcy Court determines that the value of the collateral is not sufficient to repay all amounts due on applicable secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness would hold a secured claim only to the extent of the value of their collateral and would otherwise hold unsecured claims with respect to any shortfall. The Bankruptcy Code generally permits the payment and accrual of post-petition interest, costs and attorney’s fees to a secured creditor during a debtor’s Chapter 11 case only to the extent the value of its collateral is determined by a bankruptcy court to exceed the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the obligations secured by the collateral. Some or all of the U.S. Debtors could be substantively consolidated. There is a risk that an interested party in the Chapter 11 cases, including any of the U.S. Debtors, could request that the assets and liabilities of Calpine Corporation, or those of one or more of our U.S. Debtor subsidiaries, be substantively consolidated with those of one or more other U.S. Debtors. While it has not been requested to date, we cannot assure you that substantive consolidation will not be requested in the future, or that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court would not order it. If litigation over substantive consolidation occurs, or if substantive consolidation is ordered, the ability of a U.S. Debtor that has been substantively consolidated with another U.S. Debtor to make payments required with respect to its unsecured debt, or its secured debt to the extent that the claims of holders of such secured debt are disallowed or such debt is under secured, could be adversely affected. For example, the rights of unsecured debt holders of Calpine Corporation may be diminished or diluted if Calpine Corporation were consolidated with one or more entities that have a higher amount of unsecured priority claims or other unsecured claims relative to the value of their assets available to pay such claims (after payment of or provision for allowed secured claims). In addition, the rights of shareholders of Calpine Corporation may be diminished or diluted if Calpine Corporation or other U.S. Debtors were consolidated with entities that are insolvent. Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While in bankruptcy, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments may significantly impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance post-bankruptcy. In addition, upon emergence from Chapter 11, the amounts reported in our subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements may materially change relative to our historical Consolidated Financial Statements, including as a result of revisions to our operating plans pursuant to our plan of reorganization. In addition, as part of our emergence from bankruptcy protection, we expect that we will be required to adopt fresh start accounting. If fresh start accounting is applicable, our assets and liabilities will be recorded at fair value as of the fresh start reporting date. The fair value of our assets and liabilities may differ materially from the recorded values of assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, our financial results after the application of fresh 28 Table of Contents start accounting may be different from historical trends. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our accounting while in Chapter 11. Capital Resources; Liquidity We have substantial liquidity needs and face liquidity pressure. At December 31, 2006, our cash and cash equivalents were $1,077.3 million and we had $996.5 million outstanding under the DIP Facility term loan facilities and nothing outstanding under the $1 billion DIP Facility revolving credit facility (although $82.5 million of letters of credit had been issued against the revolving credit facility). We continue to have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business and face liquidity challenges. As of December 31, 2006, our total funded debt was $17.3 billion (including $7.9 billion of consolidated debt, $7.4 billion of debt classified as LSTC and approximately $2.0 billion of unconsolidated debt of wholly owned subsidiaries), our total consolidated assets were $18.6 billion and our stockholders’ deficit was $7.2 billion. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness (including interest payments on our DIP Facility and our other outstanding secured indebtedness) and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We expect to have sufficient resources and borrowing capacity under the DIP Facility and, when the refinancing has closed, the Replacement DIP Facility, to meet all of our commitments throughout the projected term of our Chapter 11 cases. However, the success of our business plan, including our restructuring program, and ultimately our plan of reorganization, will depend on our being able to achieve our budgeted operating results. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely impact our financial health and limit our operations. Our high level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging, optimization and trading transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can transact as well as the volume of those transactions. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which could adversely affect our financial health if interest rates were to rise significantly. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, most of which we continue to pay on a current basis or pursuant to the provisions of the Cash Collateral Order during our Chapter 11 cases. Interest on such obligations could rise to levels in excess of the cash available to us from operations. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our floating rate debt during the pendency of our Chapter 11 cases, particularly under our existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility, the Second Priority Notes and the CalGen Secured Debt, substantially all of which carries (or is expected to carry) floating interest rates, it could result in defaults under our DIP Facility or our being out of compliance with the requirements of the Cash Collateral Order. It may also result in our lenders seeking relief from the automatic stay in order to foreclose on the assets securing such debt or requesting other forms of relief such as adequate protection payments (to the extent that the underlying assets are losing value). We may be unable to obtain additional financing in the future. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors. For example, because of our low credit ratings and the restrictions against additional borrowing in our existing DIP Facility, which we expect will continue to exist upon closing of the Replacement DIP Facility, we may not be able to obtain any material amount of additional debt financing during our Chapter 11 cases and CCAA proceedings, other than 29 Table of Contents through refinancing outstanding debt, or through project financings where we are able to pledge the project assets as security. Other factors include: • general economic and capital market conditions; • conditions in energy markets; • regulatory developments; • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers, as well as the economy in general; • investor confidence in the industry and in us; • the continued reliable operation of our current power generation facilities; and • provisions of tax and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. While we may utilize non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, market conditions and other factors may prevent similar financing for future facilities. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain the financing required to develop power generation facilities on terms satisfactory to us. We have financed our existing power generation facilities using a variety of leveraged financing structures, consisting of senior secured and unsecured indebtedness, construction financing, project financing, revolving credit facilities, term loans and lease obligations. Each project financing and lease obligation was structured to be fully paid out of cash flow provided by the facility or facilities financed or leased. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which we do not cure, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the facility and any related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, we might not retain any interest in the facility. Our DIP Facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us; any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. These restrictions could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs and could result in an event of default under the existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility. These restrictions limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and issue stock; • make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part; • pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • use money borrowed under the DIP Facility for Non-U.S. Debtors or make intercompany loans to Non-U.S. Debtors; • use money borrowed under the DIP Facility to make adequate protection payments to holders of Second Priority Debt; • make certain investments; • create or incur liens to secure debt; • consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; • make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; • engage in certain business activities; and • acquire facilities or other businesses. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with these covenants depends in part on our ability to implement our restructuring program during the Chapter 11 cases. If we are unable to achieve the goals associated with our restructuring program and the other elements of our business plan, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. The existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility contain events of default customary for DIP financings of this type, including cross defaults and certain change of control events. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment or a default exists and is continuing under the existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility, the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings and other obligations under the existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, or if obtained, it could be on terms that are not acceptable to us. If we are unable to comply with the terms of the DIP Facility or, if completed, the Replacement DIP Facility, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or, if it became necessary, to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, it could adversely impact the timing of, and our ultimate ability to successfully implement a plan of reorganization. As a result of our impaired credit status due to our Chapter 11 filings, our operations may be restricted and our liquidity requirements increased. As a result of our Chapter 11 filings, our credit status has been impaired. Such impairment has had a negative impact on our liquidity by increasing the amount of collateral required by our trading counterparties. In addition, fewer trading counterparties may be willing to do business with us, which reduces our ability to negotiate more favorable terms with them. We expect that our perceived creditworthiness will continue to be impaired throughout the pendency of our Chapter 11 cases and CCAA proceedings, and there is no assurance that our credit ratings will improve in the future. While financing opportunities available to us have been restricted as a result, we have been able to obtain debtor-in-possession financing on terms that we believe are attractive. However, our impaired credit has resulted in the requirement that we provide additional collateral, letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations and had certain adverse impacts on our subsidiaries’ and our business, financial position and results of operations. In particular, in light of our Chapter 11 cases and CCAA proceedings and our current credit ratings, many of our customers and counterparties are requiring that our and our subsidiaries’ obligations be secured by letters of credit or cash. Banks issuing letters of credit for our or our subsidiaries’ accounts are similarly requiring that the reimbursement obligations be cash-collateralized. In a typical commodities transaction, the amount of security that must be posted can change daily depending on the mark-to-market value of the transaction. These letter of credit and cash collateral requirements increase our cost of doing business and could have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity, particularly if there were a call for a large amount of additional cash or letter of credit collateral due to an unexpectedly large movement in the market price of a commodity. We may use up to $375 million of the revolving credit facility under our existing DIP Facility for letters of credit (up to $550 million under the Replacement DIP Facility), which in addition to cash available under the DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility we believe will be sufficient to satisfy our collateral requirements; however, it is possible that such amounts may not be sufficient. While we are exploring with counterparties and financial institutions various alternative approaches to credit support, we may not be able to provide alternative credit support in lieu of cash collateral or letter of credit posting requirements. Use of commodity contracts, including standard power and gas contracts (many of which constitute derivatives), can create volatility in earnings and may require significant cash collateral. During 2006, we recognized $99.0 million in mark-to-market gains on electric power and natural gas derivatives after recognizing $11.4 million in gains in 2005 and $13.4 million in gains in 2004. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Application of Critical Accounting Policies” for a discussion of the significant estimates and judgments utilized in the accounting for commodity derivative instruments. We may enter into other transactions in future periods that require us to mark various derivatives to market through earnings. The nature of the transactions that we enter into and the volatility of natural gas and electric power prices will determine the volatility of earnings that we may experience related to these transactions. 31 Table of Contents Companies using derivatives, which include many commodity contracts, are sensitive to the inherent risks of such transactions. Consequently (and for us, as a result of our Chapter 11 cases and credit rating downgrades), many companies, including us, are required to post cash collateral for certain commodity transactions in excess of what was previously required. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, to support commodity transactions, we had margin deposits with third parties of $213.6 million and $287.5 million, respectively; we had gas and power prepayment balances of $114.2 million and $103.2 million, respectively; and we had letters of credit outstanding of $2.0 million and $88.1 million, respectively. Counterparties had deposited with us $0.1 million and $27.0 million as margin deposits at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We use margin deposits, prepayments and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities. Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices and also based on our credit ratings and general perception of creditworthiness in this market. See also “— Capital Resources; Liquidity — As a result of our impaired credit status due to our Chapter 11 filings, our operations may be restricted and our liquidity requirements increased,” above. Certain of our financing arrangements for our facilities required us to post letters of credit of credit which are at risk of being drawn down in the event we or the applicable subsidiary defaults on certain of its obligations. Our ability to generate cash depends upon the performance of our subsidiaries. Almost all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and other affiliates. As a result, we depend almost entirely upon their earnings and cash flow to service our indebtedness, including our existing DIP Facility and Replacement DIP Facility, finance our ongoing operations and fund our restructuring costs. While certain of our indentures and other debt instruments limit our ability to enter into agreements that restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, some of these limitations are subject to a number of significant exceptions (including exceptions permitting such restrictions in connection with subsidiary financings). Accordingly, the financing agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions, or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the payment of their other obligations, including their outstanding debt, operating expenses, lease payments and reserves, or during the existence of a default, including bankruptcy related events of default. In addition, the Bankruptcy Code and the Cash Collateral Order limit the circumstances and manner in which we may obtain cash from our subsidiaries that are U.S. Debtors. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings of our U.S. Debtor subsidiaries, as well as provisions of the Cash Collateral Order, we generally may not receive cash dividends from our subsidiaries. Instead, we may, under the Cash Collateral Order, enter into intercompany loan arrangements with our subsidiaries. While the Cash Collateral Order provides that such intercompany loans may be made despite the existence of defaults related to our Chapter 11 filings, if other defaults exist under the subsidiary financing documents then cash transfers to us, even in the form of an intercompany loan, may be restricted. The additional expense and delay in negotiating and obtaining approval of intercompany loan agreements, particularly where defaults that are not related to our Chapter 11 filings exist under project financing documents, further restrict our ability to receive cash from our subsidiaries’ operations, particularly where obtaining an intercompany loan would require modification of the Cash Collateral Order. We may utilize project financing, preferred equity and other types of subsidiary financing transactions when appropriate in the future. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness is limited by the Bankruptcy Code and the Cash Collateral Order, and in some cases by existing indentures, debt instruments or other agreements. Our subsidiaries may incur additional construction/project financing indebtedness, issue preferred stock to finance the acquisition and development of new power generation facilities and engage in certain types of non-recourse financings and issuance of preferred stock to the extent permitted by the Bankruptcy Code, orders of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court or existing agreements and may continue to do so in order to fund our ongoing operations and emergence from Chapter 11. Any such newly incurred subsidiary debt would be added to our current consolidated debt levels and could intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Any such newly incurred subsidiary preferred stock would likely be structurally senior to our debt and could also intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Our senior notes and our other senior debt are effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries and other affiliates and may be effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. Our subsidiaries and other affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities 32 Table of Contents and, except in limited circumstances, have no obligation to pay any amounts due with respect to indebtedness of Calpine Corporation or indebtedness of other subsidiaries or affiliates, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on or principal of such indebtedness. In connection with our Chapter 11 cases and CCAA proceedings, we expect that such subsidiaries’ or other affiliates’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiaries or affiliates, will generally be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries or affiliates before any of those assets are made available for distribution to Calpine Corporation or the holders of Calpine Corporation’s indebtedness. As a result, holders of Calpine Corporation indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all present and future debts and other liabilities (including trade payables) of its subsidiaries and affiliates, and holders of debt of one of such subsidiaries or affiliates will effectively be so subordinated with respect to all other subsidiaries and affiliates. As of December 31, 2006, our subsidiaries had $5.5 billion of secured construction/project financing (including the CCFC and CalGen financings). In addition, our unsecured notes and our other unsecured debt are effectively subordinated to all of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our secured indebtedness includes our $996.5 million in outstanding loans under our DIP Facility and potentially our $3.7 billion in outstanding Second Priority Debt, which we have classified as LSTC. Borrowings under the DIP Facility are secured by priority liens on all of Calpine’s unencumbered assets, including the Geysers Assets, and junior liens on all of its encumbered assets; the Second Priority Debt is secured by, second priority liens on, among other things, substantially all of the assets owned directly by Calpine Corporation including power plant assets owned directly by Calpine Corporation and the equity in subsidiaries directly owned by Calpine Corporation. Our $782.3 million of CCFC term loans and notes outstanding as of December 31, 2006, are secured by the assets and contracts associated with the six natural gas-fired electric generating facilities owned by CCFC and its subsidiaries and the CCFC lenders’ and note holders’ recourse is limited to such security. Our $2.5 billion of CalGen secured institutional term loans, notes and revolving credit facility are secured by asset liens on CalGen’s power generation facilities (other than the Goldendale facility), and by a stock pledge of the equity interests in CalGen and CalGen Finance Corp., and the CalGen lenders’ and note holders’ recourse is limited to such security. We have additional non-recourse project financings, secured in each case by the assets of the project being financed. See also “— Risks Relating to Bankruptcy — Some or all of the U.S. Debtors could be substantively consolidated” above for a discussion of risks related to substantive consolidation. Operations Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors (see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), including: • seasonal variations in energy and gas prices and capacity payments; • weather; • variations in levels of production, including from forced outages; • unavailability of emissions credits; • natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts, earthquakes, hurricanes and other catastrophic events; and • the completion of development and construction projects. In particular, a disproportionate amount of our total revenue has historically been realized during the third fiscal quarter and we expect this trend to continue in the future as U.S. demand for electricity peaks in the third fiscal quarter. If our total revenue were below seasonal expectations during that quarter, by reason of facility operational performance issues, cool summers, mild winters or other factors, it could have a disproportionate effect on our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts and investors with regard to our annual operating results. In certain situations, our PPAs and other contractual arrangements, including construction agreements, commodity contracts, maintenance agreements and other arrangements may be terminated by the counterparty, 33 Table of Contents and/or may allow the counterparty to seek liquidated damages. The situations that could allow a contract counterparty to terminate the contract and/or seek liquidated damages include: • the cessation or abandonment of the development, construction, maintenance or operation of a facility; • failure of a facility to achieve construction milestones or commercial operation by agreed upon deadlines; • failure of a facility to achieve certain output or efficiency minimums; • failure by us to make any of the payments owing to the counterparty or to establish, maintain, restore, extend the term of, or increase any required collateral; • failure of a facility to obtain material permits and regulatory approvals by agreed upon deadlines; • a material breach of a representation or warranty or failure by us to observe, comply with or perform any other material obligation under the contract; or • events of liquidation, dissolution, insolvency or bankruptcy. We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas in the future at prices acceptable to us. To date, our fuel acquisition strategy has included various combinations of our own gas reserves (which were substantially sold in 2005), gas prepayment contracts, short-, medium- and long-term supply contracts, acquisition of gas in storage and gas hedging transactions. In our gas supply arrangements, we attempt to match the fuel cost with the fuel component included in the facility’s PPAs in order to minimize a project’s exposure to fuel price risk. In addition, the focus of our commercial operations unit is to manage the spark spread for our portfolio of generating plants, and we actively enter into hedging transactions to lock in gas costs and spark spreads. We believe that there will be adequate supplies of natural gas available at reasonable prices for each of our facilities when current gas supply agreements expire. However, gas supplies may not be available for the full term of the facilities’ PPAs, and gas prices may increase significantly. Additionally, our credit ratings may inhibit our ability to procure gas supplies from third parties. If gas is not available, or if gas prices increase above the level that can be recovered in electricity prices, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we obtained approximately 7% of our physical natural gas supply needs through owned natural gas reserves. Following the sale of substantially all of our oil and natural gas assets in 2005, we satisfy less than 1% of our natural gas supply needs through owned natural gas reserves. Since that time, we obtain substantially all of our physical natural gas supply from the market and utilize the natural gas financial markets to hedge our exposures to natural gas price risk. Our current less-than-investment grade credit rating increases the amount of collateral that certain of our suppliers require us to post for purchases of physical natural gas supply and hedging instruments. To the extent that we do not have cash or other means of posting credit, we may be unable to procure an adequate supply of natural gas or natural gas hedging instruments. In addition, the fact that our deliveries of natural gas depend upon the natural gas pipeline infrastructure in markets where we operate power plants exposes us to supply disruptions in the unusual event that the pipeline infrastructure is damaged or disabled. We rely on electric transmission and natural gas distribution facilities owned and operated by other companies. We depend on facilities and assets that we do not own or control for the transmission to our customers of the electricity produced in our facilities and the distribution of natural gas fuel to our facilities. If these transmission and distribution systems are disrupted or capacity on those systems is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electric energy products or obtain fuel may be hindered. ISOs that oversee transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in their power markets. Existing congestion as well as expansion of transmission systems could affect our performance. Our revenues and results of operations depend on market rules, regulation and other forces beyond our control. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: • rate caps, price limitations and bidding rules imposed by ISOs, RTOs and other market regulators that may impair our ability to recover our costs and limit our return on our capital investments; and • our competitors’ entitlement guaranteed rates of return on their capital investments, which returns may in some instances exceed such investments, and our inability to sell our power mandated rates. 34 Table of Contents Revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or termination of our PPAs. Some of the electricity we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term PPAs that expire at various times. We also sell power under short to intermediate term (one to five years) PPAs. Our uncontracted capacity is generally sold on the spot market at current market prices. When the terms of each of our various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of electricity under subsequent arrangements or on the spot market may be significantly less than the price that had been paid to us under the PPA. Our PPAs have an aggregate value in excess of current market prices (measured over the next five years) of approximately $1.4 billion at December 31, 2006. Values for our long-term commodity contracts are calculated using discounted cash flows derived as the difference between contractually based cash flows and the cash flows to buy or sell similar amounts of the commodity on market terms. Inherent in these valuations are significant assumptions regarding future prices, correlations and volatilities, as applicable. Because our PPAs are marked to market, the aggregate value of the contracts noted above could decrease in response to changes in the market. We are at risk of loss in margins to the extent that these contracts expire or are terminated and we are unable to replace them on comparable terms. We have four customers with which we have multiple contracts that, when combined, constitute greater than 10% of this value: CDWR $0.5 billion, PG&E $0.4 billion, Wisconsin Power & Light $0.2 billion, and Carolina Power & Light $0.2 billion. The values by customer are comprised of multiple individual contracts that expire beginning in 2008 and contain termination provisions standard to contracts in our industry such as negligence, performance default or prolonged events of force majeure. Our power generating operations involve many risks. Even if we are able to commence operations at a power generating facility, such operations may not commence as planned and performance may be below expected levels of output or efficiency. Furthermore, the continued operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and risks related to the creditworthiness of our contract counterparties and the creditworthiness of our counterparties’ counterparties (such as steam hosts, for example). From time to time our power generation facilities have experienced equipment breakdowns or failures, and we recorded expenses totaling approximately $27.5 million in 2006 and $33.8 million in 2005 in connection with these breakdowns or failures. Continued high failure rates of equipment provided by Siemens represent the highest risk for such breakdowns. However, we have programs in place that we believe will eventually substantially reduce the risk of equipment failures and result in our plants with Siemens’ equipment having availability factors competitive with plants using other manufacturers’ equipment. In addition, a breakdown or failure may prevent the affected facility from performing under any applicable PPAs, construction agreements, commodity contracts or other contractual arrangements. Although insurance is maintained to partially protect against operating risks, the proceeds of insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses, or may allow a counterparty to terminate an agreement and/or seek liquidated damages. As a result, we could be unable to service principal and interest payments under, or may otherwise breach, our financing obligations, particularly with respect to the affected facility, which could result in our losing our interest in the affected facility or, possibly, one or more other power generation facilities. Our power project development activities may not be successful. The development of power generation facilities is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power generation facility, we must generally obtain: • necessary power generation equipment; • governmental permits and approvals including environmental permits and approvals; • fuel supply and transportation agreements; • sufficient equity capital and debt financing; • electricity transmission agreements; • water supply and wastewater discharge agreements; and • site agreements and construction contracts. 35 Table of Contents To the extent that our development activities continue or resume, we may be unsuccessful in developing power generation facilities on a timely and profitable basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks in the development of a project by securing a favorable PPA and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. If we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we might not be able to recover our investment in the project and may be required to recognize additional impairments. The process for obtaining governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. Our geothermal energy reserves may be inadequate for our operations. In connection with each geothermal power plant, we estimate the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient reserves being available for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the development and operation of our geothermal reservoirs or accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of our steam reserves. An incorrect estimate or inability to manage our geothermal reserves, or a decline in productivity could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the development and operation of geothermal energy resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The successful exploitation of a geothermal energy resource ultimately depends upon: • the heat content of the extractable steam or fluids; • the geology of the reservoir; • the total amount of recoverable reserves; • operating expenses relating to the extraction of steam or fluids; • price levels relating to the extraction of steam or fluids or power generated; and • capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. Natural disasters could damage our projects. Certain areas where we operate and are developing many of our geothermal and gas-fired projects, particularly in WECC, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. More significant seismic disturbances are possible. In addition, other areas in which we operate, particularly in ERCOT and the Southeast, experience tornados and hurricanes. Our existing power generation facilities are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic and other disturbances, and we believe we maintain adequate insurance protection. However, earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance may be inadequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious damages or disturbances to our facilities or our operations due to natural disasters. Additionally, insurance for these risks may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. While we believe that we have excellent depth throughout all levels of management and in all key skill levels of our employees, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations and future growth if we could not replace them. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control. We have entered into agreements with third parties for management of data services in connection with the operation of our facilities. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. Any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties or to telecommunications infrastructure or systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. Competition could adversely affect our performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies, marketing and trading companies, and other IPPs. In recent years, there has been increasing competition to obtain PPAs, and this competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets. In addition, many states are 36 Table of Contents implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power industry. For instance, in Texas, legislation phased in a deregulated power market, which commenced on January 1, 2001. This competition has put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity, and increasing competition in the supply of electricity in the future could increase this pressure. Government Regulation We are subject to complex government regulation which could adversely affect our operations. Our activities are subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. The construction and operation of power generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from appropriate foreign, federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with environmental protection legislation and other regulations. While we believe that we have obtained the requisite approvals and permits for our existing operations and that our business is operated in accordance with applicable laws, we remain subject to a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Generally, in the U.S., we are subject to regulation by FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and the sale and transportation of natural gas, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under the market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generation business. FERC could also impose fines or other restrictions or requirements on us under certain circumstances. We are also subject to numerous environmental regulations. For example, in March 2005, the EPA adopted a significant air quality regulation, CAIR, that affects our fossil fuel-fired generating facilities located in the eastern half of the U.S. CAIR addresses the interstate transport of NOx and SO2 from fossil fuel power generation facilities. Individual states are responsible for developing a mechanism for assigning emissions rights to individual facilities. States’ allocation mechanisms, which are expected to be complete in 2007, will ultimately determine the net impact to us. In addition, the potential for future regulation of emissions of GHG continues to be the subject of discussion. Our power generation facilities are significant sources of CO2 emissions, a GHG. Our compliance costs with any future federal regulation of GHG could be material. Additional legislative and regulatory initiatives may occur. Legislation or regulation ultimately adopted could adversely affect our existing projects. Existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Federal or state legislatures may adopt additional legislation relating to the energy industry which could restrict our business. There are proposals in many jurisdictions both to advance and to reverse the movement toward competitive markets for supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail level. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could impact our ability to compete successfully, and our business and results of operations could suffer. The adoption of new laws and regulations or the perception that new laws and regulations will be adopted could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects, and completed facilities may not comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction and operation of our facilities can be a costly and time-consuming process. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements, loss of required permits or regulatory status or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 37 Table of Contents 