Item 1A. Risk Factors Economic and Financial Capital Market Conditions A general economic downturn could result in a reduction in our revenue, or result in our customers, counterparties, vendors or other service providers failing to perform under their contracts with us. To the extent that general economic downturns affect the markets in which we operate, demand for power and power prices may be reduced, which could reduce our revenues. In addition, challenges currently affecting the economy could cause our customers, counterparties, vendors and service providers to experience serious cash flow problems and, as a result, they may be unable to perform under existing contracts, or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output or performance on future contracts. If the duration and severity of the general economic downturn results in a significant reduction in our expected revenues and operating cash flows over time, we could experience future impairments of our power plant assets as a result. The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties including those under our Exit Credit Facility and other credit and financing arrangements as we routinely execute transactions in connection with our hedging and optimization activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise defaults under a financing agreement. In an effort to minimize the risk that our counterparties would not be able to honor their commitments under our Exit Credit Facility and to reduce the risk that future availability of credit from other sources may be limited, we drew $725 million under our Exit Credit Facility revolving facility on October 2, 2008, and have invested the proceeds in money market funds, which are mainly invested in U.S. Treasury securities or other obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government, its agencies or instrumentalities. Inability to access the credit and capital markets could adversely affect us. We and our subsidiaries rely on access to the credit and capital markets as a source of liquidity for the portion of our working capital requirements not provided by cash generated from our operations, and to finance 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our capital projects, including project financing for the construction of our power plants or expansions of existing facilities. If our available cash, including future cash flows from operations, is not sufficient to repay our debt coming due in the near term, we may need to access the capital and credit markets to refinance debt. Market disruptions such as those experienced in the U.S. and abroad in 2008 and early 2009, including substantial uncertainty surrounding particular lending institutions and counterparties with which we do business, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business, may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity upon which we rely to finance our operations, and to satisfy or refinance our obligations as they become due. These disruptions may continue throughout 2009 or longer. In addition, we believe these conditions have and may continue to have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock, which in turn may also reduce our ability to access capital or credit markets. Our ability to manage our counterparty credit risk could adversely affect us. Our counterparties may experience deteriorating credit. These conditions could cause counterparties in the natural gas and power markets, particularly in the power derivative markets that we rely on for our hedging activities, to withdraw from participation in those markets. If multiple parties withdraw from those markets, market liquidity may be threatened, which in turn could adversely impact our business. Additionally, these conditions may cause our counterparties to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the derivative exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations. The U.S. government’s proposed plan to address the financial crisis may not be effective to stabilize the financial markets or to increase the availability of credit. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions causing disruptions in the credit and capital markets and a global economic downturn, the U.S. Congress and government have enacted legislation and proposed several additional economic stimulus programs for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets and increasing the availability of credit. However, the capital markets have continued to experience extreme levels of volatility and the credit markets have not yet shown any significant increase in the availability of credit. There can be no assurance what the impact of these programs ultimately will have on the financial markets or the U.S. economy. If actions taken pursuant to legislation are not successful in stabilizing the economy, particularly the financial markets, and increasing the availability of credit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Capital Resources; Liquidity We have substantial liquidity needs and could face liquidity pressure. As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated debt outstanding was $10.5 billion, of which approximately $6.6 billion was outstanding under our Exit Credit Facility. In addition we had $556 million in letters of credit outstanding and our pro rata share of unconsolidated subsidiary debt was approximately $477 million. Although we have reduced our debt as a result of our reorganization, we could face liquidity challenges as we continue to have substantial debt and substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from our operations and our ability to access the capital markets. This, to a certain extent, is dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as discussed further under “— Economic and Financial Capital Market Conditions.” Our borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities remains limited. Although we are permitted to enter into new project financing credit facilities to fund our development 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and construction activities under certain circumstances, there can be no assurance that we will not face liquidity pressure in the future. See additional discussion regarding our capital resources and liquidity in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial indebtedness could adversely impact our financial health and limit our operations. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, potential growth or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flows in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in governmental regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness or to repurchase equity issued by certain of our subsidiaries to third parties; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging and optimization transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can transact as well as the volume of those transactions. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which could adversely affect our financial health if interest rates were to rise significantly. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which we pay on a current basis. However, interest on unhedged obligations could rise to levels in excess of the cash available to us from operations. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our floating rate debt, particularly our Exit Credit Facility, it could result in defaults under our Exit Credit Facility and other debt instruments. We manage our interest rate risk through the use of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps. See also Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Market Risks — Interest Rate Risk.” We may be unable to obtain additional financing in the future. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors. For example, because of our credit ratings, we may not be able to obtain any material amount of additional debt financing. In addition, the restrictions against additional borrowing in our Exit Credit Facility may limit additional indebtedness other than through refinancing outstanding debt, or through project financings where we are able to pledge the project assets as security. Other factors include: • general economic and capital market conditions, including those described under “— Economic and Financial Capital Market Conditions”; • conditions in power markets; • regulatory developments; • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; • investor confidence in the industry and in us; 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the continued reliable operation of our current power plants; and • provisions of tax, regulatory and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. While we have utilized non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, market conditions and other factors may prevent us from completing similar financings in the future. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain the financing required to develop, construct, acquire or expand power plants on terms satisfactory to us. We have financed our existing power plants using a variety of leveraged financing structures, including senior secured and unsecured indebtedness, construction financing, project financing, term loans and lease obligations. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which we do not cure, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the power plant and any related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, we may not be able to retain any interest in the power plant or other collateral supporting such financing. In addition, any such default or foreclosure may trigger cross default provisions in our other financing agreements. We must either repay or refinance our debt maturing in the near term. Our current maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2008 were $716 million. While we believe that we will have sufficient cash on hand and expected future cash flows from our future operations available to repay our debt maturing in 2009, if we were to use cash to make those repayments it could adversely impact our liquidity, and require us to reduce capital and other expenditures and take other steps to enable us to conserve our remaining capital resources. During 2008 and continuing into 2009, there has been a significant contraction in the availability of capital, including for participants in the power sector, as the U.S. and global economies have experienced unprecedented economic disruptions stemming initially from turmoil in the sub-prime mortgage industry and spreading to affect virtually all aspects of the economy. It is likely that these conditions will continue during 2009, and it is possible that we may not be able to access the capital or credit markets to refinance our debt coming due in 2009 or the terms of financing available to us in the future may not be attractive, in which case we may be required to use cash to repay that debt. We cannot provide any assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when due and to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. While we believe we will be successful in repaying or refinancing all of our debt on or before maturity, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to do so. Our Exit Credit Facility imposes significant restrictions on us; any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. The restrictions under our Exit Credit Facility could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs and could result in an event of default under the Exit Credit Facility. These restrictions require us to meet certain financial performance tests on a quarterly basis and limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and use proceeds from the issuance of stock; • make prepayments on or purchase our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness or equity instruments in whole or in part; • pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our stock, or repurchase our stock or make other restricted payments; • use money borrowed under the Exit Credit Facility for non-guarantors (including foreign subsidiaries); 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • make certain investments; • create or incur liens to secure debt; • consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • limit dividends or other distributions from certain subsidiaries up to us; • make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; • engage in certain business activities; and • acquire power plants or other businesses. The Exit Credit Facility contains events of default customary for financings of this type, including a cross default to debt other than non-recourse project financing debt, a cross-acceleration to non-recourse project financing debt and certain change of control events. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the Exit Credit Facility and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or a default exists and is continuing under the Exit Credit Facility, the lenders could give notice and declare outstanding borrowings and other obligations under the Exit Credit Facility immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, or if obtainable, it could be on terms that are not acceptable to us. If we are unable to comply with the terms of the Exit Credit Facility, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if it became necessary to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our credit status is below investment grade, which may restrict our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and restrict financing opportunities. Our corporate and debt credit ratings are below investment grade. There is no assurance that our credit ratings will improve in the future, which may restrict the financing opportunities available to us or may increase the cost of any available financing. Our current credit rating has resulted in the requirement that we provide additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations, and has had certain adverse impacts on our subsidiaries’ and our financial position and results of operations. Certain of our obligations are required to be secured by letters of credit or cash, which increase our costs; if we are unable to provide such security it may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Companies using derivatives, which include many commodity contracts, are subject to the inherent risks of such transactions. Consequently, many companies, including us, may be required to post cash collateral for certain commodity transactions; and, the level of collateral will increase as a company increases its hedging activities. We use margin deposits, prepayments and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities. Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices, and also based on our credit ratings and general perception of creditworthiness in this market. Certain of our financing arrangements for our power plants have required us to post letters of credit which are at risk of being drawn down in the event we, or the applicable subsidiary, default on our obligations. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These letter of credit and cash collateral requirements increase our cost of doing business and could have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity, particularly if there was a call for a large amount of additional cash or letter of credit collateral due to an unexpectedly large movement in the market price of a commodity. As of December 31, 2008, we had $556 million in letters of credit outstanding under our Exit Credit Facility and other facilities; with $16 million remaining available for borrowing or for letter of credit support under the Exit Credit Facility, following our October 2008 borrowing of $725 million under the Exit Credit Facility revolving facility. We entered into two financing agreements in 2008 to provide for increased liquidity in periods of increasing natural gas prices. As of December 31, 2008, we had $100 million in debt outstanding under our Commodity Collateral Revolver with an additional $200 million remaining available for advances or letters of credit under certain reference transactions to collateralize obligations to counterparties under eligible commodity hedge agreements, and we had $50 million in letters of credit outstanding under the Knock-in Facility with an additional $150 million in availability contingent upon natural gas prices exceeding certain thresholds. In addition, we have ratably secured our obligations under certain of our power and natural gas agreements that qualify as eligible commodity hedge agreements under our Exit Credit Facility with the assets currently subject to liens under the Exit Credit Facility. We may not have sufficient liquidity to hedge market risks effectively. We are exposed to market risks through our sale of power, capacity and related products and the purchase and sale of fuel, transmission services and emission allowances. These market risks include, among other risks, volatility arising from location and timing differences that may be associated with buying and transporting fuel, converting fuel into power and delivering the power to a buyer. We undertake these activities through agreements with various counterparties, many of which require us to provide guarantees, offset or netting arrangements, letters of credit, a second lien on assets and/or cash collateral to protect the counterparties against the risk of our default or insolvency. The amount of such credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market prices can result in our being required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. The effectiveness of our strategy may be dependent on the amount of collateral available to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity requirements may be greater than we anticipate or will be able to meet. Without a sufficient amount of working capital to post as collateral in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin, we may not be able to manage price volatility effectively or to implement our strategy. An increase in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required to be provided to our counterparties may negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, if any of our power plants experience unplanned outages, we may be required to procure replacement power at spot market prices in order to fulfill contractual commitments. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, we may be exposed to significant losses, may miss significant opportunities and may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets. Our ability to receive future cash flows generated from the operation of our subsidiaries may be limited. Almost all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and other affiliates. As a result, we depend almost entirely upon their earnings and cash flows to service our indebtedness, including our Exit Credit Facility, finance our ongoing operations, and fund our restructuring costs. Certain of our project debt and other agreements restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Some of these limitations are subject to a number of significant exceptions (including exceptions permitting such restrictions in connection with certain subsidiary financings). Accordingly, the financing agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions, or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the payment of their other obligations, including their outstanding debt, operating expenses, lease payments and reserves, or during the existence of a default. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may utilize project financing, preferred equity and other types of subsidiary financing transactions when appropriate in the future. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness are limited in some cases by existing indentures, debt instruments or other agreements. Our subsidiaries may incur additional construction/project financing indebtedness, issue preferred equity to finance the acquisition and development of new power plants and engage in certain types of non-recourse financings to the extent permitted by existing agreements, and may continue to do so in order to fund our ongoing operations. Any such newly incurred subsidiary debt, and certain types of preferred equity, would be added to our current consolidated debt levels and could intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Any such newly incurred subsidiary preferred equity would likely be structurally senior to our debt and could also intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Our Exit Credit Facility and other parent-company debt is effectively subordinated to certain project indebtedness. Certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and, except in limited circumstances, have no obligation to pay any amounts due with respect to our indebtedness or indebtedness of other subsidiaries or affiliates, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on or principal of such indebtedness. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization (or the bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary or affiliate), such subsidiaries’ or other affiliates’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiaries or affiliates, will generally be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries or affiliates before any assets are made available for distribution to us or the holders of our indebtedness. As a result, holders of our indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all present and future debts and other liabilities (including trade payables) of certain of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008, our subsidiaries had approximately $1.5 billion of secured construction/project financing and $1.1 billion in debt from our CCFC subsidiary and preferred interests, which are effectively senior to our Exit Credit Facility. We may incur additional project financing indebtedness in the future, which will be effectively senior to our other secured and unsecured debt. Operations Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. After our emergence from Chapter 11, the amounts reported in our subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements may materially change relative to our historical Consolidated Financial Statements, including as a result of our restructuring activities, the implementation of our Plan of Reorganization and the continued execution of our business strategies. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors (see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for our 2008 and 2007 quarterly operating results), including: • seasonal variations in power and natural gas prices and capacity payments; • seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular unseasonable weather conditions; • production levels of hydroelectric power in the West; • variations in levels of production, including from forced outages; 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • availability of emissions credits; • natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts, earthquakes, hurricanes and other catastrophic events; and • the completion of development and construction projects. In particular, a disproportionate amount of our total revenue has historically been realized during the third fiscal quarter and we expect this trend to continue in the future as demand for power in our markets peaks in our third fiscal quarter. If our total revenue were below seasonal expectations during that quarter, by reason of power plant operational performance issues, cool summers, or other factors, it could have a disproportionate effect on our annual operating results. Accounting for our hedging activities may increase the volatility in our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in commodity-related marketing and price-risk management activities in order to financially hedge our exposure to market risk with respect to power sales from our power plants, fuel utilized by those assets and emission allowances. We generally attempt to balance our fixed-price physical and financial purchases, and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. These derivatives are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 133, which requires us to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value unless they qualify for the normal purchase normal sale exception. Changes in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices are immediately recognized in earnings, unless the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Sudden commodity price movements could create financial losses. Whether a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment depends upon it meeting specific criteria used to determine if the cash flow hedge is and will remain effective for the term of the derivative. Economic hedges will not necessarily qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. As a result, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on our quarterly and annual operating results. The use of hedging agreements could result in financial losses. We typically enter into hedging agreements, including contracts to purchase or sell commodities at future dates and at fixed prices, in order to manage our commodity price risks. These activities, although intended to mitigate price volatility, expose us to other risks. When we sell power forward, we give up the opportunity to sell power at higher prices in the future, which not only may result in lost opportunity costs but may also require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral or other credit support to our counterparties. Further, if the values of the financial contracts change in a manner that we do not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm our business, operating results or financial position. We do not typically hedge the entire exposure of our operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon movement in commodity prices. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the Chapter 11 cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Although the majority of the material claims against us that arose prior to the Petition Date were resolved during our Chapter 11 cases, certain of such actions, as well as actions instituted during the pendency of our Chapter 11 cases, have not been resolved, and additional actions could be filed against us in the future. In general, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization were discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the Plan of Reorganization; however, 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements there are certain exceptions. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations, that arose prior to the Petition Date, were not discharged primarily relate to certain actions by governmental units under police power authority or where we have agreed to preserve a claimant’s claims or a claimant has received court approval to proceed with their claim, as well as, potentially, instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the Chapter 11 filing. The ultimate resolution of such claims and other obligations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Additionally, despite our emergence from Chapter 11 on January 31, 2008, several significant matters remain unresolved in connection with our reorganization, including an appeal from a shareholder seeking reconsideration of the Confirmation Order. Unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or termination of our PPAs. Some of the power we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term PPAs that expire at various times. We also sell power under short- to intermediate-term (one day to five years) PPAs. Our uncontracted capacity is generally sold on the spot market at current market prices. When the terms of each of our various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of power under subsequent arrangements or on the spot market may be significantly less than the price that had been paid to us under the PPA. In addition, power plants without long-term PPAs for some or all of their generating capacity and output are exposed to market fluctuations. Without the benefit of long-term PPAs, we may not be able to sell any or all of the power generated by these power plants at commercially attractive rates and these power plants may not be able to operate profitably. Certain of our PPAs have values in excess of current market prices (measured over the next five years). The aggregate value of these PPAs is approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008. Values for our long-term commodity contracts are calculated using discounted cash flows derived as the difference between contractually based cash flows and the cash flows to buy or sell similar amounts of the commodity on market terms. Inherent in these valuations are significant assumptions regarding future prices, correlations and volatilities, as applicable. The aggregate value of such contracts could decrease in response to changes in the market. We are at risk of loss in margins to the extent that these contracts expire or are terminated and we are unable to replace them on comparable terms. Approximately 63% of the calculated value of these PPAs will expire over the next three years. Additionally, our PPAs contain termination provisions standard to contracts in our industry such as negligence, performance default or prolonged events of force majeure. In certain situations, our PPAs and other contractual arrangements, including construction agreements, commodity contracts, maintenance agreements and other arrangements, may be terminated by the counterparty and/or may allow the counterparty to seek liquidated damages. The situations that could allow a counterparty to terminate the contract and/or seek liquidated damages include: • the cessation or abandonment of the development, construction, maintenance or operation of a power plant; • failure of a power plant to achieve construction milestones or commercial operation by agreed-upon deadlines; • failure of a power plant to achieve certain output or efficiency minimums; • our failure to make any of the payments owed to the counterparty or to establish, maintain, restore, extend the term of, or increase any required collateral; • failure of a power plant to obtain material permits and regulatory approvals by agreed-upon deadlines; 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • a material breach of a representation or warranty or our failure to observe, comply with or perform any other material obligation under the contract; or • events of liquidation, dissolution, insolvency or bankruptcy. We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas in the future at prices acceptable to us. We obtain substantially all of our physical natural gas supply from third parties pursuant to arrangements that vary in term, pricing structure, firmness and delivery flexibility. Our physical natural gas supply arrangements must be coordinated with transportation agreements, balancing agreements, storage services, financial hedging transactions and other contracts so that the natural gas is delivered to our power plants at the times, in the quantities and otherwise in a manner that meets the needs of our generation portfolio and our customers. We must also comply with laws and regulations governing gas transportation. While adequate supplies of natural gas are currently available to us at prices we believe are reasonable for each of our power plants, we are exposed to increases in the price of natural gas and it is possible that sufficient supplies to operate our portfolio profitably may not continue to be available to us. In addition, we face risks with regard to the delivery to and the use of natural gas by our power plants including the following: • transportation may be unavailable if pipeline infrastructure is damaged or disabled; • pipeline tariff changes may adversely affect our ability to or cost to deliver natural gas supply; • third-party suppliers may default on natural gas supply obligations and we may be unable to replace supplies currently under contract; • market liquidity for physical natural gas or availability of natural gas services (e.g. storage) may be insufficient or available only at prices that are not acceptable to us; • natural gas quality variation may adversely affect our plant operations; and • our natural gas operations capability may be compromised due to various events such as natural disaster, loss of key personnel or loss of critical infrastructure. We rely on power transmission and natural gas distribution facilities owned and operated by other companies. We depend on facilities and assets that we do not own or control for the transmission to our customers of the power produced in our power plants and the distribution of natural gas fuel to our power plants. If these transmission and distribution systems are disrupted or capacity on those systems is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power products or obtain fuel may be hindered. ISOs that oversee transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in their power markets. Existing congestion as well as expansion of transmission systems could affect our performance. Our revenues and results of operations depend on market rules, regulation and other forces beyond our control. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: • rate caps, price limitations and bidding rules imposed by ISOs, RTOs and other market regulators that may impair our ability to recover our costs and limit our return on our capital investments; and 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • some of our competitors’ (mainly utilities) entitlement-guaranteed rates of return on their capital investments, which returns may in some instances exceed market returns, may impact our ability to sell our power at economical rates. Our power generating operations performance may be below expected levels of output or efficiency. The operation of power plants involves risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and risks related to the creditworthiness of our contract counterparties and the creditworthiness of our counterparties’ customers or other parties (such as steam hosts) with whom our counterparties have contracted. From time to time our power plants have experienced equipment breakdowns or failures. In addition, a breakdown or failure may prevent the affected power plant from performing under any applicable PPAs, commodity contracts or other contractual arrangements. Such failure may allow a counterparty to terminate an agreement and/or seek liquidated damages. Although insurance is maintained to partially protect against operating risks, the proceeds of insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, we could be unable to service principal and interest payments under, or may otherwise breach, our financing obligations, particularly with respect to the affected power plant, which could result in losing our interest in the affected power plant or, possibly, one or more other power plants. Our power project development activities may not be successful. The development of power plants is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power plant, we must generally obtain: • necessary power generation equipment; • governmental permits and approvals including environmental permits and approvals; • fuel supply and transportation agreements; • sufficient equity capital and debt financing; • power transmission agreements; • water supply and wastewater discharge agreements or permits; and • site agreements and construction contracts. To the extent that our development activities continue or expand, we may be unsuccessful in developing power plants on a timely and profitable basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks in the development of a project by securing a favorable PPA and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to expend significant cash sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. If we are unable to complete the development of a power plant, we might not be able to recover our investment in the project and may be required to recognize additional impairments. The process for obtaining governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our geothermal power reserves may be inadequate for our operations. In connection with each geothermal power plant, we estimate the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient reserves being available for sustained generation of the power capacity desired. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the development and operation of our geothermal reservoirs or accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of our steam reserves. An incorrect estimate or inability to manage our geothermal reserves, or a decline in productivity could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the development and operation of geothermal power resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The successful exploitation of a geothermal power resource ultimately depends upon many factors including the following: • the heat content of the extractable steam or fluids; • the geology of the reservoir; • the total amount of recoverable reserves; • operating expenses relating to the extraction of steam or fluids; • price levels relating to the extraction of steam, fluids or power generated; and • capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. Natural disasters could damage our projects or our corporate offices. Certain areas where we operate and are developing many of our geothermal and gas-fired projects, particularly in the West, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. More significant seismic disturbances are possible. In addition, other areas in which we operate, particularly in Texas and the Southeast, experience tornados and hurricanes. Similarly, operations at our corporate offices in Houston, Texas could be substantially affected by a hurricane. Our existing power plants are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic and other disturbances, and we believe we maintain adequate insurance protection. However, earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance may be inadequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious damages or disturbances to our power plants or our operations due to natural disasters. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. While we believe that we have excellent depth throughout all levels of management and in all key skill levels of our employees, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth if we were unable to replace them. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications, and database services in connection with the operation of our power plants. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. Any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure, or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Competition could adversely affect our performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies, marketing and trading companies, and other IPPs. In addition, many states are implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power industry. This competition has put pressure on power utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased power, and increasing competition in the supply of power in the future could increase this pressure. In addition, construction during the last decade has created excess power supply and higher reserve margins, which has led to tight liquidity in the power trading markets, putting downward pressure on prices. Our financial performance may be impacted by price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets and other market factors that are beyond our control. Market prices for power, generation capacity and ancillary services tend to fluctuate substantially. Unlike most other commodities, power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, power prices are subject to significant volatility due to supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and spot markets. Long- and short-term power prices may also fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of our control, including: • increases and decreases in generation capacity in our markets, including the addition of new supplies of power as a result of the development of new generation plants, expansion of existing plants or additional transmission capacity; • changes in power transmission or fuel transportation capacity constraints or inefficiencies; • power supply disruptions, including plant outages and transmission disruptions; • Heat Rate risk; • weather conditions; • changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage, including the potential development of demand-side management tools and practices; • development of new fuels and new technologies for the production of power; • regulations and actions of the ISOs; and, • federal and state power market and environmental regulation and legislation including mandating RPS or creating financial incentives each resulting in new renewable energy generation capacity creating oversupply. These factors have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and will continue to cause them to do so in the future. Governmental Regulation Existing and future anticipated GHG/Carbon legislation could adversely affect our operations. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and this trend is likely to continue. In particular, there is growing likelihood that carbon tax or limits on carbon, CO2 and other GHG emissions will be implemented at the federal or expanded at the state or regional levels. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In 2009, ten states in the northeast began the compliance period of a cap-and-trade program, RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from power plants. California is in the process of creating implementation plans for Assembly Bill 32 which places a statewide cap on GHG emissions and requires the state to return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. In 2008, there were several bills introduced in the U.S. Congress concerning climate change. We believe the current federal administration will intensify these efforts. We expect proposed legislation will take the form of a cap-and-trade program where generators receive allowances and/or purchase allowances to emit CO2 and other GHGs. It is possible the legislation may take other forms, such as a carbon tax on each unit of CO2 or GHG emitted in excess of mandated limits. In general, we expect GHG regulations will be favorable to us due to the efficiency of our natural gas fleet. Our combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power plants emit less than half the CO2 per unit of power generated compared to a traditional coal-fired unit. In addition, our Geysers Assets are exempted from regulation under the currently proposed cap-and-trade programs. As a result of requirements for GHG emissions, we could be required to purchase allowances or offsets to emit GHGs or other regulated pollutants or to pay taxes on such emissions. Although the ultimate legislation and regulations that result from these activities could have a material impact on our business, we believe we will face a lower compliance burden than most competitors due to the relatively low GHG emission rates of our fleet. Under a Cap-and-trade or carbon tax approach to reducing GHG emissions, companies that sell power and steam under existing long-term contracts may not be able to recover compliance costs or carbon taxes. Many long-term contracts that were executed before GHG emissions regulations were anticipated do not contain applicable “change in law” provisions that would enable the generators to pass such costs or taxes to the customer. We have certain power and steam sales contracts that may not allow such costs or taxes to be recovered from our customers. Existing and proposed federal and state RPS and energy efficiency, as well as economic support for renewable sources of power under the U.S economic stimulus legislation could adversely impact our operations. Federal policy makers have been considering imposing a national RPS on retail power providers. California already has an RPS in effect and is currently considering new and higher RPS. A number of additional states, including Maine, Minnesota, New York, Texas and Wisconsin, have an array of different RPS in place. Existing state-specific RPS requirements may change due to regulatory and/or legislative initiatives, and other states may consider implementing enforceable RPS in the future. A national RPS or more robust RPS in states in which we are active, coupled with economic incentives provided under the federal stimulus package, would likely initially drive up the number of wind and solar resources, increasing power supply to various markets which could negatively impact the dispatch of our natural gas assets, primarily in Texas and California. Similarly, federal legislators are considering national energy efficiency initiatives. Several states already have energy efficiency initiatives in place while others are considering imposing them. Improved energy efficiency when mandated by law or promoted by government sponsored incentives can decrease demand for power which could negatively impact the dispatch of our gas assets, primarily in Texas and California. We are subject to complex governmental regulation which could adversely affect our operations. Generally, in the U.S., we are subject to regulation by FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and the sale and transportation of natural gas, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of the power plants. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under the market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generation business. FERC could also impose fines or other restrictions or requirements on us under certain circumstances. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The construction and operation of power plants require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from appropriate foreign, federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with federal, state and local legislation and regulations. We must also comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities and obtain numerous governmental permits and approvals to operate our power plants. Should we fail to comply with any environmental requirements that apply to power plant construction or operations, we could be subject to administrative, civil and/or criminal liability and fines, and regulatory agencies could take other actions to curtail our operations. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects, and completed power plants may not comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction and operation of our power plants can be a costly and time-consuming process. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements, loss of required permits or regulatory status or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. Furthermore, certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our power plants, including any soil or groundwater contamination that may be present, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether the liabilities are known or unknown, or arose from the activities of predecessors or third parties. If we were deemed to have market power in certain markets as a result of the ownership of our stock by certain significant shareholders, we could lose FERC authorization to sell power at wholesale at market-based rates in such markets or be required to engage in mitigation in those markets. Certain of our significant shareholder groups own power generating assets, or own significant equity interests in entities with power generating assets, in markets where we currently own power plants. FERC has ruled that we do not have market power as a consequence of their ownership of our common stock. However, we could be determined to have market power if these existing significant shareholders acquire additional significant ownership or equity interest in other entities with power generating assets in the same markets where we generate and sell power. If FERC makes the determination that we have market power, FERC could, among other things, revoke market-based rate authority for the affected market-based companies or order them to mitigate that market power. If market-based rate authority were revoked for any of our market-based rate companies, those companies would be required to make wholesale sales of power based on cost-of-service rates, which could negatively impact their revenues. If we are required to mitigate market power, we could be required to sell certain power plants in regions where we are determined to have market power. A loss of our market-based rate authority or required sales of power plants, particularly if it affected several of our power plants or was in a significant market such as California, could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market pricing of our common stock has been volatile. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on a “when issued” basis on January 16, 2008, and began “regular way” trading on the NYSE on February 7, 2008. The market price for our common stock has been volatile in the past, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future. Factors that could affect the price of our common stock in the future include general conditions in our industry, in the power markets in which we participate and in the world, including environmental and economic developments, over which we have no control, as well as developments specific to us, including fluctuations in our results of 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operations, our ability to comply with the covenants under our Exit Credit Facility and other debt instruments, our ability to execute our business plan, and other matters discussed in these risk factors. As noted above, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to the concentration of ownership of our shares in a small number of holders, particularly if certain of these large shareholders sought to sell all or a large portion of their shares in a short period of time. Moreover, in addition to the approximately 427 million shares of reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock that have been distributed to creditors pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, approximately 58 million shares have been reserved for distribution upon the resolution of disputed claims and pending resolution of certain inter-creditor matters; the distribution of these additional shares could have a dilutive effect on our current holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, trading in our securities is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Our principal shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence over corporate transactions and other matters. Three holders (or related groups of holders) of our common stock have made filings with the SEC reporting beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, individually or as members of a group, of 10% or more of the shares of our common stock. These shareholders, who together beneficially own approximately 63% of our common stock, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions. If two or more of these shareholders (or groups of shareholders) vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to elect our entire Board of Directors and control our management, operations and affairs. Currently, two members of our Board of Directors, including the Chairman of our Board, are affiliated, directly or indirectly, with SPO Advisory Corp., one of these shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control over us unless it is supported by these shareholders. Accordingly, your ability to influence us through voting your shares may be limited or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Additionally, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 registering the resale of the common stock held by certain members of two of the three groups of these shareholders, which will permit them to sell a large portion of their shares of common stock without being subject to the “trickle out” or other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. If these shareholders sought to sell all of their registered shares within a short period of time, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, if two of the three groups of these shareholders agree to sell their shares included on the registration statement on Form S-3 to one shareholder, it could concentrate a significant share of our ownership with one shareholder. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity in connection with our reorganization, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax NOL carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, NOL carryforwards can be utilized to reduce future taxable income subject to certain limitations if we were to undergo an ownership change as defined by the IRC. We experienced an ownership change on the Effective Date as a result of the cancellation of our old common stock and the distribution of our new common stock pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization. The annual limitation from this ownership change will not result in the expiration of the NOL carryforwards provided we are able to generate sufficient future taxable income within the carryforward periods. If a subsequent ownership change was to occur as a result of future transactions in our stock, accompanied by a significant reduction in our market value immediately prior to the ownership change, our ability to utilize the NOL carryforwards may be significantly limited. To prevent the risk of loss of our ability to utilize our tax NOL carryforwards, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to meet to determine whether to impose certain transfer restrictions on our common stock in the following circumstances: if, prior to February 1, 2013, our 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Market Capitalization declines by at least 35% from our Emergence Date Market Capitalization of approximately $8.6 billion (calculated pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation) and at least 25 percentage points of shift in ownership has occurred with respect to our equity for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC. During 2008, and through the filing of this Report, we have experienced declines in our stock price of more than 50% from our Emergence Date Market Capitalization. As of the filing of this Report, our shift in ownership is approximately 10%. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 registering the resale of the common stock held by two holders (or related groups of holders) of our common stock that collectively own approximately 47% of our common stock, which will permit them to sell a large portion of their shares of common stock without being subject to the “trickle out” or other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. If these shareholders sought to sell all of their registered shares within a short period of time, pursuant to the Form S-3 or otherwise, it would result in a shift in ownership of greater than 25 percentage points and our Board of Directors could elect to impose certain trading restrictions on our common stock as described above. These restrictions are not currently operative but could become operative in the future if the foregoing events occur and our Board of Directors elect to impose them. There can be no assurance that the circumstances will not be met in the future, or in the event that they are met, that our Board of Directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that, if imposed, such restrictions would prevent an ownership change from occurring. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 