ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have exposure to economic downturns and operate in cyclical markets. As a supplier of capital equipment to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Demand for compressor and vacuum products is dependent upon capital spending by manufacturing, process, and transportation industries. Many of our customers, particularly industrial customers, will delay capital projects, including non-critical maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. Demand for some of our fluid transfer products is primarily tied to the number of working and available drilling rigs and oil and natural gas prices. The energy market, in particular, is cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas fluctuates. When worldwide demand for these commodities is depressed, the demand for our products used in drilling and recovery applications is reduced. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period. The markets for our products have historically experienced downturns in demand. Future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We face robust competition in the markets we serve, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We actively compete with many companies producing the same or similar products. Depending on the particular product, we experience competition based on a number of factors, including quality, performance, price and availability. We compete against many companies, including divisions of larger companies with greater financial resources than we possess. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the markets in which we compete and throughout the economy as a whole. In addition, new competitors could enter our markets. If we cannot compete successfully, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Large or rapid increases in the costs of raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability and our dependence on particular suppliers of raw materials could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our primary raw materials, directly and indirectly, are cast iron, aluminum and steel. Although we have a limited number of long-term contracts with key suppliers and are seeking to enter into additional long-term contracts, we do not have long-term contracts with most of our suppliers. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in prices of such raw materials. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels of brokers and dealers, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the price of raw materials. We use single sources of supply for certain iron castings, motors and other select engineered components. From time to time in recent years, we have experienced a disruption to our supply deliveries and may experience further supply disruptions. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely meet our commitments to customers and, therefore, our operating results. We may not be able to continue to identify and complete other strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate such acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits. One of our growth strategies is to increase our sales and expand our markets through acquisitions. We have completed 20 acquisitions since becoming an independent company in 1994. We expect to continue making acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. Furthermore, our existing operations may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. 14 Table of Contents Even if we can complete future acquisitions, we face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process can be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to our existing and acquired businesses, and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, those businesses. Even if we can successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, there is no assurance that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or revenue enhancements will be realized within the expected time frame, or at all. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 59% of our revenues were from customers in countries outside of the United States. We have manufacturing facilities in Germany, the United Kingdom, China, Brazil, Italy, Sweden, Finland and Canada. We intend to continue to expand our international operations to the extent that suitable opportunities become available. Non-U.S. operations and U.S. export sales could be adversely affected as a result of: • nationalization of private enterprises; • political or economic instability in certain countries; • differences in foreign laws, including increased difficulties in protecting intellectual property and uncertainty in enforcement of contract rights; • changes in the legal and regulatory policies of foreign jurisdictions; • credit risks; • currency fluctuations; • exchange controls; • changes in tariff restrictions; • royalty and tax increases; • export and import restrictions and restrictive regulations of foreign governments; • potential problems obtaining supply of raw materials; • shipping products during times of crisis or war; and • other factors inherent in foreign operations. Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have an adverse impact. None of our executive officers has an employment agreement. In addition, with the worldwide tightening of labor markets, the availability of highly qualified talent is decreasing and the competition for talent is becoming more intense. However, we provide long-term equity incentives and certain other benefits for our executive officers, including change in control agreements, which provide incentives for them to make a long-term commitment to our company. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and a failure to attract and retain new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. 15 Table of Contents The nature of our products creates the possibility of significant product liability and warranty claims, which could harm our business. Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. In addition, our products are integral to the production process for some end-users and any failure of our products could result in a suspension of operations. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defects. We maintain amounts and types of insurance coverage that we believe are adequate and consistent with normal industry practice for a company of our relative size. However, we cannot guarantee that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all liabilities incurred. We also may not be able to maintain insurance in the future at levels we believe are necessary and at rates we consider reasonable. We may be named as a defendant in product liability or other lawsuits asserting potentially large claims if an accident occurs at a location where our equipment and services have been or are being used. The risk of regulatory noncompliance could have a significant impact on our business. Our global operations subject us to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and multiple foreign laws, regulations and policies, which could result in conflicting legal requirements. Noncompliance with any applicable laws could result in enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation. In addition, changes in current legal, regulatory, accounting, tax, data protection, international trade or compliance requirements could adversely affect our operations, revenues and earnings as well as require us to modify our strategic objectives. Environmental-compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to increasingly stringent domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. Under such laws and regulations, we can be subject to substantial fines and sanctions for violations and be required to install costly pollution control equipment or effect operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and regulations. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party with respect to several sites designated for cleanup under federal “Superfund” or similar state laws. An accrued liability on our balance sheet reflects costs which are probable and estimable for our projected financial obligations relating to these matters. If we have underestimated our remaining financial obligations, we may face greater exposure that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with regulatory requirements relating to environmental matters, and many environmental laws impose joint and several liability for remediation for cleanup of certain waste sites and for related natural resource damages. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We are a defendant in certain asbestos and silicosis personal injury lawsuits, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in a number of asbestos and silicosis personal injury lawsuits. The plaintiffs in these suits allege exposure to asbestos or silica from multiple sources, and typically we are one of approximately 25 or more named defendants. In our experience to date, the substantial majority of the plaintiffs have not suffered an injury for which we bear responsibility. 16 Table of Contents We believe that the pending lawsuits are not likely to, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. However, future developments, including, without limitation, potential insolvencies of insurance companies or other defendants, could cause a different outcome. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the resolution of pending or future lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. As of December 31, 2007, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $891.8 million, or 46.8% of our total assets. Goodwill is generated in an acquisition when the cost of such acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Goodwill and certain other identifiable intangible assets are subject to impairment analyses at least annually. We could be required to recognize reductions in our net income caused by the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, which, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Communication or information systems failure may disrupt our business and result in financial loss and liability to our clients. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If any of these systems do not function properly, we could suffer financial loss, business disruption, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. If our systems are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions, our ability to grow could be limited. Although we have back-up systems in place, we cannot be certain that any systems failure or interruption, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise will not occur, or that back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any failure or interruption will be adequate. Third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property or may claim we have infringed their intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality provisions, contractual restrictions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully enforce these intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Although we make a significant effort to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties, from time to time we may receive notice that a third party believes that our products may be infringing certain patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of such third party. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be costly and time consuming, and can divert management’s attention and other resources. Depending on the resolution of such claims, we may be barred from using a specific technology or other right, may be required to redesign or re-engineer a product, or may become liable for significant damages. Our business could suffer if we experience employee work stoppages or other labor difficulties. As of January 2008, we have approximately 6,200 full-time employees. A significant number of our employees, including a large portion of the employees outside of the U.S., are represented by works councils and labor unions. Although we do not anticipate future work stoppages by our union employees, there can be no assurance that work stoppages will not occur. Although we believe that our relations with employees are satisfactory and have not experienced any material work stoppages, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor or 17 Table of Contents that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. The occurrence of any of the preceding conditions could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 