Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Emergence from Chapter 11 The market pricing of our reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock may be volatile. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on a “when issued” basis on January 16, 2008, and began “regular way” trading on the NYSE on February 7, 2008. The liquidity of any market for our common stock will depend, among other things, upon the number of holders of our common stock and on our and our subsidiaries’ financial performance. The market price for our common stock has been volatile in the past, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future. Factors that could affect the price of our common stock in the future include general conditions in our industry, in the power markets in which we participate and in the world, including environmental and economic developments, over which we have no control, as well as developments specific to our Company, including fluctuations in our results of operations, our ability to comply with the covenants under our Exit Facilities and other debt instruments, our ability to execute our business plan, 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and other matters discussed in these risk factors. Recipients of reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock under the Plan of Reorganization may seek to sell all or a large portion of their shares in a short period of time which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, in addition to the approximately 421 million shares of reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock that have been distributed to creditors pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, approximately 64 million shares have been reserved for distribution upon the resolution of disputed claims. Also, approximately 48.5 million shares have been reserved for issuance upon exercise of the warrants distributed to the holders of our previously outstanding common stock; the distribution of these additional shares could have a dilutive effect on our current holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, trading in our securities is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity in connection with our reorganization, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, NOL carryforwards can be utilized to reduce future taxable income subject to certain limitations if we were to undergo an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code. We experienced an ownership change on the Effective Date as a result of the distribution of reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization. We do not expect the annual limitation from this ownership change to result in the expiration of the NOL carryforwards if we are able to generate sufficient future taxable income within the carryforward periods. If a subsequent ownership change were to occur as a result of future transactions in our stock, accompanied by a significant reduction in the market value of the company immediately prior to the ownership change, our ability to utilize the NOL carryforwards may be significantly limited. In accordance with our Plan of Reorganization, our common stock is subject to certain transfer restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These restrictions are designed to minimize the likelihood of any potential adverse federal income tax consequences resulting from an ownership change; however, these restrictions may not prevent an ownership change from occurring. These restrictions are not currently operative but could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the restrictions are imposed by our Board of Directors. Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. After our emergence from Chapter 11, the amounts reported in our subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements may materially change relative to our historical Consolidated Financial Statements, including as a result of our restructuring activities, the implementation of our Plan of Reorganization and the continued execution of our business strategies. In addition, as part of our emergence from Chapter 11, as of January 31, 2008, we may be required to adopt fresh start accounting. If fresh start accounting were to apply, our assets and liabilities would be recorded at fair value as of the Effective Date which could materially differ from the recorded values of assets and liabilities recorded at historical cost on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, our financial results after the application of fresh start accounting may not reflect historical trends. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our accounting following emergence from Chapter 11. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the Chapter 11 cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business subjects us to litigation. Although the majority of the material claims against us that arose prior to the Petition Date were resolved during our Chapter 11 cases, certain of such actions, as well as actions instituted during the pendency of our Chapter 11 cases, have not been resolved, and additional actions could be filed against us in the future. In addition, the Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation and certain debts arising afterwards. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of the Plan of Reorganization (i) are subject to compromise and/or treatment under the Plan of Reorganization or (ii) were discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the Plan of Reorganization. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to the Petition Date were not discharged primarily relate to certain actions by governmental units under police power authority, where we have agreed to preserve a claimant’s claims or the claimant has received court approval to proceed with its claim, as well as, potentially, instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the Chapter 11 filing. The ultimate resolution of such claims and other obligations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Additionally, despite our emergence from Chapter 11 on January 31, 2008, several significant matters remain unresolved in connection with our reorganization, including appeals by several shareholders seeking reconsideration of the Confirmation Order. Unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. In particular, while we do not believe that the appeals of the Confirmation Order will be successful, if the Confirmation Order were reversed, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our principal shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence over corporate transactions and other matters. Three holders (or related groups of holders) of reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock have made filings with the SEC reporting beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, individually or as members of a group, of 10% or more of the shares of our common stock. These shareholders, who together beneficially own more than 45% of our common stock, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions. If two or more of these shareholders (or groups of shareholders) vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to elect our entire Board of Directors and control our management, operations and affairs. Currently, two members of our Board of Directors, including the Chairman of our Board, are affiliated, directly or indirectly, with SPO Advisory Corp., one of these shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control over us unless it is supported by these shareholders. Accordingly, your ability to influence us through voting your shares may be limited or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Capital Resources; Liquidity We have substantial liquidity needs and could face liquidity pressure. Following our reorganization, including the implementation of our Plan of Reorganization pursuant to which we canceled our old common stock and issued new shares of reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock, we repaid certain of our secured and unsecured debt with a combination of cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our Exit Facilities and shares of our new common stock. Accordingly, as of the Effective Date, our total funded debt was $10.7 billion. Our consolidated debt outstanding was $10.4 billion, of which approximately $6.4 billion was outstanding under our Exit Facilities. Our pro rata share of unconsolidated subsidiary debt was approximately $0.3 billion. In addition, we had approximately $225 million in letters of credit that had been issued against the revolving credit facility portion of our Exit Facilities. As of December 31, 2007, our cash and cash equivalents were $1.9 billion; our total consolidated assets were $18.5 billion and our stockholders’ deficit was $4.7 billion. Although we have reduced our debt as a result of our reorganization, we could face liquidity challenges as we continue to have substantial debt and to have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness (including interest payments on our Exit Facilities and our other outstanding indebtedness) and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, such as the recent volatility in the credit markets due to the economic impacts of the turmoil in the subprime debt markets. Although we expect to continue to have sufficient resources and borrowing capacity under the Exit Facilities and our other existing project credit facilities, and we are permitted to enter into new project financing credit facilities to fund our development and construction activities under certain circumstances, there can be no assurance of the success of our business plan, which will depend on our being able to achieve our budgeted operating results including meeting our liquidity needs. See additional discussion regarding our capital resources and liquidity in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial indebtedness could adversely impact our financial health and limit our operations. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, potential growth or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in governmental regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging, optimization and trading transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can transact as well as the volume of those transactions. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which could adversely affect our financial health if interest rates were to rise significantly. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which we pay on a current basis. However, interest on such obligations could rise to levels in excess of the cash available to us from operations. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our floating rate debt, particularly our Exit Facilities, it could result in defaults under our Exit Facilities and other debt instruments. We manage our interest rate risk through the use of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps. See also Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Market Risks — Interest Rate Risk.” We may be unable to obtain additional financing in the future. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors. For example, because of our credit ratings and the restrictions against additional borrowing in our Exit Facilities, we may not be able to obtain any material amount of additional debt financing, other than through refinancing outstanding debt, or through project financings where we are able to pledge the project assets as security. Other factors include: • general economic and capital market conditions; • conditions in energy markets; • regulatory developments; 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers, as well as the economy in general; • investor confidence in the industry and in us; • the continued reliable operation of our current power generation facilities; and • provisions of tax and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. While we may utilize non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, market conditions and other factors may prevent similar financing for future facilities. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain the financing required to develop power generation facilities on terms satisfactory to us. We have financed our existing power generation facilities using a variety of leveraged financing structures, consisting of senior secured and unsecured indebtedness, construction financing, project financing, term loans and lease obligations. Each project financing and lease obligation was structured to be fully paid out of cash flow provided by the facility or facilities financed or leased. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which we do not cure, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the facility and any related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, we might not retain any interest in the facility. Our Exit Facilities impose significant restrictions on us; any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. These restrictions could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs and could result in an event of default under the Exit Facilities. These restrictions require us to meet certain financial performance tests on a quarterly basis and limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and use of proceeds from the issuance of stock; • make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part; • pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our stock or repurchase our stock or make other restricted payments; • use money borrowed under the Exit Facilities for non-guarantors (including foreign subsidiaries); • make certain investments; • create or incur liens to secure debt; • consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • limit dividends or other distributions from certain subsidiaries up to Calpine; • make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; • engage in certain business activities; and • acquire facilities or other businesses. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Exit Facilities contain events of default customary for financings of this type, including cross defaults and certain change of control events. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the Exit Facilities and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment or a default exists and is continuing under the Exit Facilities, the lenders could give notice and declare outstanding borrowings and other obligations under the Exit Facilities immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, or if obtained, it could be on terms that are not acceptable to us. If we are unable to comply with the terms of the Exit Facilities, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or, if it became necessary, to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our credit status is below investment grade, which may restrict our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and restrict financing opportunities. Our corporate and debt credit ratings are below investment grade. There is no assurance that our credit ratings will improve in the future, which may restrict the financing opportunities available to us. Our impaired credit has resulted in the requirement that we provide additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations and has had certain adverse impacts on our subsidiaries’ and our business, financial position and results of operations. Many of our customers and counterparties are requiring that our and our subsidiaries’ obligations be secured by letters of credit or cash. In a typical commodities transaction, the amount of security that must be posted can change daily depending on the mark-to-market value of the transaction. These letter of credit and cash collateral requirements increase our cost of doing business and could have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity, particularly if there were a call for a large amount of additional cash or letter of credit collateral due to an unexpectedly large movement in the market price of a commodity. We have up to $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility under our Exit Credit Facility, of which up to $550 million may be used for letters of credit, which, in addition to $150 million of availability under a letter of credit facility of our subsidiary, Calpine Development Holding Inc., we believe will be sufficient to satisfy our cash collateral and letter of credit support requirements; however, it is possible that such amounts may not be sufficient. While we are exploring with counterparties and financial institutions various alternative approaches to credit support, we may not be able to provide alternative credit support in lieu of cash collateral or letter of credit posting requirements. Use of commodity contracts, including standard power and gas contracts (many of which constitute derivatives), can create volatility in earnings and may require significant cash collateral. During 2007, we recognized $5 million in mark-to-market gains on electric power and natural gas derivatives after recognizing $91 million in gains in 2006 and $11 million in gains in 2005. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Application of Critical Accounting Policies” for a discussion of the significant estimates and judgments utilized in the accounting for commodity derivative instruments. We may enter into other transactions in future periods that require us to mark various derivatives to market through earnings. The volume and nature of the transactions that we enter into and the volatility of natural gas and electric power prices will determine the volatility of earnings that we may experience related to these transactions. Companies using derivatives, which include many commodity contracts, are subject to the inherent risks of such transactions. Consequently many companies, including us, may be required to post cash collateral for certain commodity transactions; and, the level of collateral will increase as a company increases its hedging 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements activities. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, to support commodity transactions, we had margin deposits with third parties of $314 million and $214 million, respectively; we had gas and power prepayment balances of $74 million and $114 million, respectively; and we had letters of credit outstanding of $55 million and $2 million, respectively. Counterparties had deposited with us $21 million and nil as margin deposits at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We use margin deposits, prepayments and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities. Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices and also based on our credit ratings and general perception of creditworthiness in this market. See also “— Capital Resources; Liquidity — Our credit status is below investment grade, which may restrict our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and restrict financing opportunities,” above. Certain of our financing arrangements for our facilities have required us to post letters of credit which are at risk of being drawn down in the event we or the applicable subsidiary defaults on certain obligations. Our ability to generate cash depends upon the performance of our subsidiaries. Almost all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and other affiliates. As a result, we depend almost entirely upon their earnings and cash flow to service our indebtedness, including our Exit Facilities, finance our ongoing operations, and fund our restructuring costs. While certain of our indentures and other debt instruments limit our ability to enter into agreements that restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, some of these limitations are subject to a number of significant exceptions (including exceptions permitting such restrictions in connection with subsidiary financings). Accordingly, the financing agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions, or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the payment of their other obligations, including their outstanding debt, operating expenses, lease payments and reserves, or during the existence of a default. We may utilize project financing, preferred equity and other types of subsidiary financing transactions when appropriate in the future. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness is limited in some cases by existing indentures, debt instruments or other agreements. Our subsidiaries may incur additional construction/project financing indebtedness, issue preferred stock to finance the acquisition and development of new power generation facilities and engage in certain types of non-recourse financings to the extent permitted by existing agreements and may continue to do so in order to fund our ongoing operations. Any such newly incurred subsidiary debt would be added to our current consolidated debt levels and could intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Any such newly incurred subsidiary preferred stock would likely be structurally senior to our debt and could also intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Our Exit Facilities and other parent-company debt is effectively subordinated to certain indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries and other affiliates and may be effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. Our subsidiaries and other affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and, except in limited circumstances, have no obligation to pay any amounts due with respect to our indebtedness or indebtedness of other subsidiaries or affiliates, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on or principal of such indebtedness. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization (or the bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary or affiliate), such subsidiaries’ or other affiliates’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiaries or affiliates, will generally be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries or affiliates before any assets are made available for distribution to us or the holders of our indebtedness. In addition, we are also permitted to reorganize our subsidiaries in a manner that allows creditors of one subsidiary to collect against assets currently held by another subsidiary. As a result, holders of our indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all present and future debts and other liabilities (including trade 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements payables) of our subsidiaries and affiliates, and holders of debt of one of our subsidiaries or affiliates will effectively be so subordinated with respect to all of our other subsidiaries and affiliates. As of December 31, 2007, our subsidiaries had $1.9 billion of secured construction/project financing, which is effectively senior to our Exit Facilities. We may incur additional project financing indebtedness in the future, which will be effectively senior to our other secured and unsecured debt. Operations Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors (see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for our 2007 and 2006 quarterly operating results), including: • seasonal variations in energy and gas prices and capacity payments; • seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular unseasonable weather conditions; • production levels of hydro electricity in the West; • variations in levels of production, including from forced outages; • availability of emissions credits; • natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts, earthquakes, hurricanes and other catastrophic events; and • the completion of development and construction projects. In particular, a disproportionate amount of our total revenue has historically been realized during the third fiscal quarter and we expect this trend to continue in the future as demand for electricity in our markets peaks in our third fiscal quarter. If our total revenue were below seasonal expectations during that quarter, by reason of facility operational performance issues, cool summers, or other factors, it could have a disproportionate effect on our annual operating results. In certain situations, our PPAs and other contractual arrangements, including construction agreements, commodity contracts, maintenance agreements and other arrangements may be terminated by the counterparty, and/or may allow the counterparty to seek liquidated damages. The situations that could allow a contract counterparty to terminate the contract and/or seek liquidated damages include: • the cessation or abandonment of the development, construction, maintenance or operation of a facility; • failure of a facility to achieve construction milestones or commercial operation by agreed-upon deadlines; • failure of a facility to achieve certain output or efficiency minimums; • failure by us to make any of the payments owed to the counterparty or to establish, maintain, restore, extend the term of, or increase any required collateral; 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • failure of a facility to obtain material permits and regulatory approvals by agreed-upon deadlines; • a material breach of a representation or warranty or failure by us to observe, comply with or perform any other material obligation under the contract; or • events of liquidation, dissolution, insolvency or bankruptcy. We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas in the future at prices acceptable to us. We obtain substantially all of our physical natural gas supply from third parties pursuant to arrangements that vary in term, pricing structure, firmness and delivery flexibility. Our physical gas supply arrangements must be coordinated with transportation agreements, balancing agreements, storage services, financial hedging transactions and other contracts so that the natural gas is delivered to our generation facilities at the times, in the quantities and otherwise in a manner that meets the needs of our generation portfolio and our customers. We must also comply with laws and regulations governing gas transportation. While adequate supplies of natural gas are currently available to us at prices we believe are reasonable for each of our facilities, we are exposed to increases in the price of natural gas and it is possible that sufficient supplies to operate our portfolio profitably may not continue to be available to us. In addition, we face risks with regard to the delivery to and use of natural gas by our generation facilities including the following: • transportation may be unavailable if pipeline infrastructure is damaged or disabled; • pipeline tariff changes may adversely affect our ability to or cost to deliver gas supply; • third-party suppliers may default on gas supply obligations and we may be unable to replace supplies currently under contract; • market liquidity for physical gas or availability of gas services (e.g. storage) may be insufficient or available only at prices that are not acceptable to us; • natural gas quality variation may adversely affect our plant operations; and • our gas operations capability may be compromised due to various events such as natural disaster, loss of key personnel or loss of critical infrastructure. We rely on electric transmission and natural gas distribution facilities owned and operated by other companies. We depend on facilities and assets that we do not own or control for the transmission to our customers of the electricity produced in our facilities and the distribution of natural gas fuel to our facilities. If these transmission and distribution systems are disrupted or capacity on those systems is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electric energy products or obtain fuel may be hindered. ISOs that oversee transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in their power markets. Existing congestion as well as expansion of transmission systems could affect our performance. Our revenues and results of operations depend on market rules, regulation and other forces beyond our control. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: • rate caps, price limitations and bidding rules imposed by ISOs, RTOs and other market regulators that may impair our ability to recover our costs and limit our return on our capital investments; and 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • some of our competitors’ (mainly utilities) entitlement-guaranteed rates of return on their capital investments, which returns may in some instances exceed market returns, may impact our ability to sell our energy at economical rates. Revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or termination of our PPAs. Some of the electricity we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term PPAs that expire at various times. We also sell power under short to intermediate term (one to five years) PPAs. Our uncontracted capacity is generally sold on the spot market at current market prices. When the terms of each of our various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of electricity under subsequent arrangements or on the spot market may be significantly less than the price that had been paid to us under the PPA. Certain of our PPAs have values in excess of current market prices (measured over the next five years). The aggregate value of these PPAs is approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007. Values for our long-term commodity contracts are calculated using discounted cash flows derived as the difference between contractually based cash flows and the cash flows to buy or sell similar amounts of the commodity on market terms. Inherent in these valuations are significant assumptions regarding future prices, correlations and volatilities, as applicable. The aggregate value of such contracts could decrease in response to changes in the market. We are at risk of loss in margins to the extent that these contracts expire or are terminated and we are unable to replace them on comparable terms. We have three customers with which we have multiple contracts that, when combined, constitute greater than 10% of this value: CDWR $0.2 billion, Wisconsin Power & Light $0.2 billion, and Carolina Power & Light $0.2 billion. The values by customer are comprised of multiple individual contracts. Approximately 70% of the calculated value of these PPAs will expire over the next three years. Additionally, our PPAs contain termination provisions standard to contracts in our industry such as negligence, performance default or prolonged events of force majeure. Our power generating operations performance may be below expected levels of output or efficiency. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and risks related to the creditworthiness of our contract counterparties and the creditworthiness of our counterparties’ customers or other parties (such as steam hosts) with whom our counterparties have contracted. From time to time our power generation facilities have experienced equipment breakdowns or failures. We have experienced a high failure rate on certain turbine equipment due to certain manufacturer defects. We and such manufacturers and certain of our third party service providers have programs in place that we believe reduce the risk of equipment failures, however, it is possible that our affected plants may have reduced availability factors in the future due to such equipment failures. In addition, a breakdown or failure may prevent the affected facility from performing under any applicable PPAs, commodity contracts or other contractual arrangements. Such failure may allow a counterparty to terminate an agreement and/or seek liquidated damages. Although insurance is maintained to partially protect against operating risks, the proceeds of insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, we could be unable to service principal and interest payments under, or may otherwise breach, our financing obligations, particularly with respect to the affected facility, which could result in our losing our interest in the affected facility or, possibly, one or more other power generation facilities. Our power project development activities may not be successful. The development of power generation facilities is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power generation facility, we must generally obtain: • necessary power generation equipment; • governmental permits and approvals including environmental permits and approvals; 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • fuel supply and transportation agreements; • sufficient equity capital and debt financing; • electricity transmission agreements; • water supply and wastewater discharge agreements or permits; and • site agreements and construction contracts. To the extent that our development activities continue or expand, we may be unsuccessful in developing power generation facilities on a timely and profitable basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks in the development of a project by securing a favorable PPA and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to expend significant cash sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. If we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we might not be able to recover our investment in the project and may be required to recognize additional impairments. The process for obtaining governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. Our geothermal energy reserves may be inadequate for our operations. In connection with each geothermal power plant, we estimate the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient reserves being available for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the development and operation of our geothermal reservoirs or accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of our steam reserves. An incorrect estimate or inability to manage our geothermal reserves, or a decline in productivity could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the development and operation of geothermal energy resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The successful exploitation of a geothermal energy resource ultimately depends upon many factors including the following: • the heat content of the extractable steam or fluids; • the geology of the reservoir; • the total amount of recoverable reserves; • operating expenses relating to the extraction of steam or fluids; • price levels relating to the extraction of steam, fluids or power generated; and • capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. Natural disasters could damage our projects. Certain areas where we operate and are developing many of our geothermal and gas-fired projects, particularly in the West, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. More significant seismic disturbances are possible. In addition, other areas in which we operate, particularly in Texas and the Southeast, experience tornados and hurricanes. Our existing power generation facilities are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic and other disturbances, and we believe we maintain adequate insurance protection. However, earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance may be inadequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious damages or disturbances to our facilities or our operations due to natural disasters. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. While we believe that we have excellent depth throughout all levels of management and in all key skill levels of our employees, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth if we could not replace them. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer has announced his intent to leave the Company once a successor is in place, and certain of our other senior management positions are currently held by consultants under temporary arrangements. If we are not able to attract talented, committed individuals to fill these positions, it may adversely affect our ability to fully implement our business objectives. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications, and database services in connection with the operation of our facilities. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. Any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure, or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. Competition could adversely affect our performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies, marketing and trading companies, and other IPPs. In addition, many states are implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power industry. This competition has put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity, and increasing competition in the supply of electricity in the future could increase this pressure. In addition, construction during the last decade has created excess power supply and higher reserve margins, which has led to tight liquidity in the energy trading markets, putting downward pressure on prices. Governmental Regulation We are subject to complex governmental regulation which could adversely affect our operations. Our activities are subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. The construction and operation of power generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from appropriate foreign, federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with environmental protection legislation and other regulations. While we believe that we have obtained the requisite approvals and permits for our existing operations and that our business is operated in accordance with applicable laws, we remain subject to a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Generally, in the U.S., we are subject to regulation by FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and the sale and transportation of natural gas, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under the market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generation business. FERC could also impose fines or other restrictions or requirements on us under certain circumstances. We are also subject to numerous environmental regulations. For example, in March 2005, the EPA adopted a significant air quality regulation, CAIR, that affects our fossil fuel-fired generating facilities located in the eastern half of the U.S. CAIR addresses the interstate transport of NOx and SO2 from fossil fuel power generation facilities. Individual states are responsible for developing a mechanism for assigning emissions rights 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to individual facilities. States’ allocation mechanisms, which are expected to be complete in 2008, will ultimately determine the net impact to us. In addition, the potential for future regulation of emissions of GHG continues to be on the national agenda. Our power generation facilities are significant sources of CO2 emissions, a GHG. Our compliance costs with any future federal regulation of GHG could be material. The adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us or the perception that new laws and regulations will be adopted that are applicable to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There are proposals in many jurisdictions both to advance and to reverse the movement toward competitive markets for supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail level. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could impact our ability to compete successfully, and our business and results of operations could suffer. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects, and completed facilities may not comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction and operation of our facilities can be a costly and time-consuming process. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements, loss of required permits or regulatory status or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. If we were deemed to have market power in certain markets as a result of the ownership of our stock by certain significant shareholders, we could lose FERC authorization to sell power at wholesale at market-based rates in such markets or be required to engage in mitigation in those markets to counteract the market power. Certain of our significant shareholders own power generating assets in markets where we currently own generating assets. We do not believe that we have market power as a consequence of their ownership of our common stock, and we have submitted an analysis to FERC to support this position. However, it is possible that FERC could have a different view on this issue, in which case FERC would have the authority to, among other things, revoke market-based rate authority for the affected market-based companies or order them to mitigate that market power. If market-based rate authority were revoked for any of our market-based rate companies, those companies would be required to make wholesale sales of power based on cost-of-service rates, which could impact their revenues. A loss of our market-based rate authority, particularly if it affected several of our power plants or was in a significant market such as California, could have a materially negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 