Item 1A. Risk Factors Commercial Operations Our financial performance is impacted by price fluctuations in the wholesale power and natural gas markets and other market factors that are beyond our control. Market prices for power, generation capacity, ancillary services, natural gas and fuel oil are unpredictable and fluctuate substantially. Unlike most other commodities, power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, power prices are subject to significant volatility 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements due to supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and spot markets. Long- and short-term power and natural gas prices may also fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of our control, including: • increases and decreases in generation capacity in our markets, including the addition of new supplies of power as a result of the development of new power plants, expansion of existing power plants or additional transmission capacity; • changes in power transmission or fuel transportation capacity constraints or inefficiencies; • power supply disruptions, including power plant outages and transmission disruptions; • Heat Rate risk; • weather conditions; • quarterly and seasonal fluctuations; • changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage, including the potential development of demand-side management tools and practices; • development of new fuels or new technologies for the production of power; • regulations and actions of the ISOs; • federal and state power, market and environmental regulation and legislation, including mandating a RPS or creating financial incentives, each resulting in new renewable energy generation capacity creating oversupply; • changes in prices related to RECs; and • changes in capacity prices and capacity markets. These factors have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and will continue to cause them to do so in the future. Our revenues and results of operations depend on market rules, regulation and other forces beyond our control. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: • rate caps, price limitations and bidding rules imposed by ISOs, Regional Transmission Organizations and other market regulators that may impair our ability to recover our costs and limit our return on our capital investments; • some of our competitors (mainly utilities) receive entitlement-guaranteed rates of return on their capital investments, with returns that exceed market returns and may impact our ability to sell our power at economical rates; • structure and operating characteristics of our capacity markets such as our PJM capacity auctions and our NYISO markets; and • regulations and market rules related to our RECs. Accounting for our hedging activities may increase the volatility in our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in commodity-related marketing and price-risk management activities in order to economically hedge our exposure to market risk with respect to power sales from our power plants, fuel utilized by those assets and emission allowances. We generally attempt to balance our fixed-price physical and financial 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements purchases, and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. These derivatives are accounted for under U.S. GAAP, which requires us to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value unless they qualify for the normal purchase normal sale exemption. Changes in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices are immediately recognized in earnings, unless the derivative qualifies for, and is designated as, cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Sudden commodity price movements could create financial gains or losses. Whether a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment depends upon it meeting specific criteria used to determine if the cash flow hedge is and will remain effective for the term of the derivative. Economic hedges will not necessarily qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment, or for economic hedges that currently qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment; we may lose cash flow hedge accounting treatment in the future if the forecasted transactions are no longer considered probable of occurring. Additionally, we may voluntarily decide to discontinue cash flow treatment in the future. As a result, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on our quarterly and annual financial results. The use of hedging agreements may not work as planned or fully protect us and could result in financial losses. We typically enter into hedging agreements, including contracts to purchase or sell commodities at future dates and at fixed prices, in order to manage our commodity price risks. These activities, although intended to mitigate price volatility, expose us to other risks. When we sell power forward, we may be required to post significant amounts of cash collateral or other credit support to our counterparties and we give up the opportunity to sell power at higher prices if spot prices are higher in the future. Further, if the values of the financial contracts change in a manner that we do not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not typically hedge the entire exposure of our operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be diminished based upon adverse movement in commodity prices. Our ability to manage our counterparty credit risk could adversely affect us. Our customer and supplier counterparties may experience deteriorating credit. These conditions could cause counterparties in the natural gas and power markets, particularly in the energy commodity derivative markets that we rely on for our hedging activities, to withdraw from participation in those markets. If multiple parties withdraw from those markets, market liquidity may be threatened, which in turn could adversely impact our business. Additionally, these conditions may cause our counterparties to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the derivative exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition could adversely affect our performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies, marketing and trading companies and other independent power producers. In addition, many states are implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power industry. This competition has put pressure on power utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased power, and increasing competition in the supply of power in the future could increase this pressure. In addition, construction during the last decade has created excess power supply and higher reserve margins in the power trading markets, putting downward pressure on prices. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In certain situations, our PPAs and other contractual arrangements, including construction agreements, commodity contracts, maintenance agreements and other arrangements, may be terminated by the counterparty and/or may allow the counterparty to seek liquidated damages. The situations that could allow a counterparty to terminate the contract and/or seek liquidated damages include: • the cessation or abandonment of the development, construction, maintenance or operation of a power plant; • failure of a power plant to achieve construction milestones or commercial operation by agreed-upon deadlines; • failure of a power plant to achieve certain output or efficiency minimums; • our failure to make any of the payments owed to the counterparty or to establish, maintain, restore, extend the term of, or increase any required collateral; • failure of a power plant to obtain material permits and regulatory approvals by agreed-upon deadlines; • a material breach of a representation or warranty or our failure to observe, comply with or perform any other material obligation under the contract; or • events of liquidation, dissolution, insolvency or bankruptcy. Revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or termination of our PPAs. Some of the power we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term PPAs that expire at various times. We also sell power under short- to intermediate-term (one day to five years) PPAs. Our uncontracted capacity is generally sold on the spot market at current market prices as merchant energy. When the terms of each of our various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of power under subsequent arrangements or on the spot market may be significantly less than the price that had been paid to us under the PPA. Power plants without long-term PPAs involve risk and uncertainty in forecasting future demand load for merchant sales because they are exposed to market fluctuations for some or all of their generating capacity and output. A significant under- or over-estimation of load requirements may increase our operating costs. Without the benefit of long-term PPAs, we may not be able to sell any or all of the power generated by these power plants at commercially attractive rates and these power plants may not be able to operate profitably. Certain of our PPAs have values in excess of current market prices. We are at risk of loss of margins to the extent that these contracts expire or are terminated and we are unable to replace them on comparable terms. Additionally, our PPAs contain termination provisions standard to contracts in our industry such as negligence, performance default or prolonged events of force majeure. A prolonged economic downturn could result in a reduction in our revenue and operating cash flows or result in our customers, counterparties, vendors or other service providers failing to perform under their contracts with us. To the extent that an economic downturn returns and affects the markets in which we operate, demand for power and power prices may be depressed, and our revenues and operating cash flows could be negatively impacted. In addition, challenges currently affecting the economy could cause our customers, counterparties, vendors and service providers to experience deteriorating credit and serious cash flow problems. As a result, these conditions could cause counterparties in the natural gas and power markets, particularly in the energy commodity derivative markets that we rely on for our hedging activities, to be unable to perform under existing 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements contracts, or to withdraw from participation in those markets. If multiple parties withdraw from those markets, market liquidity may be threatened, which in turn could adversely impact our business. Additionally, these conditions may cause our counterparties to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Power Operations Our power generating operations performance involves significant risks and hazards and may be below expected levels of output or efficiency. The operation of power plants involves risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and risks related to the creditworthiness of our contract counterparties and the creditworthiness of our counterparties’ customers or other parties, such as steam hosts, with whom our counterparties have contracted. From time to time our power plants have experienced unplanned outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to equipment breakdowns, failures or other problems and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically can result in lost revenues, increase our maintenance expenses and may reduce our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unplanned outage may prevent the affected power plant from performing under any applicable PPAs, commodity contracts or other contractual arrangements. Such failure may allow a counterparty to terminate an agreement and/or seek liquidated damages. Although insurance is maintained to partially protect against operating risks, the proceeds of insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, we could be unable to service principal and interest payments under, or may otherwise breach, our financing obligations, particularly with respect to the affected power plant, which could result in losing our interest in the affected power plant or, possibly, one or more other power plants. We may be subject to future claims, litigation and enforcement Our power generating operations are inherently hazardous and may lead to catastrophic events, including loss of life, personal injury and destruction of property, and subject us to litigation. Natural gas is highly explosive and power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and delivering fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering power to transmission and distribution systems. These and other hazards can cause severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment and suspension of operations. In the worst circumstances, catastrophic events can cause significant personal injury or loss of life. Further, the occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate; however, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we are subject. Additionally, we are party to various litigation matters, including regulatory and administrative proceedings arising out of the normal course of business. We review our litigation activities and determine if an unfavorable outcome to us is considered “remote,” “reasonably possible” or “probable” as defined by U.S. GAAP. Where we have determined an unfavorable outcome is probable and is reasonably estimable, we have accrued for potential litigation losses. A successful claim against us that is not fully insured could be material; however, we do not expect that the outcome of such claims or legal actions will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. See also Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our more significant litigation matters. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We rely on power transmission and fuel distribution facilities owned and operated by other companies. We depend on facilities and assets that we do not own or control for the transmission to our customers of the power produced by our power plants and the distribution of natural gas fuel or fuel oil to our power plants. If these transmission and distribution systems are disrupted or capacity on those systems is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power products or obtain fuel may be hindered. ISOs that oversee transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in their power markets. Existing congestion, as well as expansion of transmission systems, could affect our performance. Our power project development and construction activities involve risk and may not be successful. The development and construction of power plants is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power plant, we must generally obtain: • necessary power generation equipment; • governmental permits and approvals including environmental permits and approvals; • fuel supply and transportation agreements; • sufficient equity capital and debt financing; • power transmission agreements; • water supply and wastewater discharge agreements or permits; and • site agreements and construction contracts. To the extent that our development and construction activities continue or expand, we may be unsuccessful on a timely and profitable basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks of these activities by securing a favorable PPA and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to expend significant cash sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. The process for obtaining governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects, and completed power plants may not comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction and operation of our power plants can be a costly and time-consuming process. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements, loss of required permits or regulatory status or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project resulting in potential impairments. We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of fuel in the future. We obtain substantially all of our physical natural gas and fuel oil supply from third parties pursuant to arrangements that vary in term, pricing structure, firmness and delivery flexibility. Our physical natural gas and fuel oil supply arrangements must be coordinated with transportation agreements, balancing agreements, storage services, financial hedging transactions and other contracts so that the natural gas and fuel oil is delivered to our power plants at the times, in the quantities and otherwise in a manner that meets the needs of our generation portfolio and our customers. We must also comply with laws and regulations governing natural gas transportation. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements While adequate supplies of natural gas and fuel oil are currently available to us at prices we believe are reasonable for each of our power plants, we are exposed to increases in the price of natural gas and fuel oil and it is possible that sufficient supplies to operate our portfolio profitably may not continue to be available to us. In addition, we face risks with regard to the delivery to and the use of natural gas and fuel oil by our power plants including the following: • transportation may be unavailable if pipeline infrastructure is damaged or disabled; • pipeline tariff changes may adversely affect our ability to, or cost to, deliver natural gas and fuel oil supply; • third-party suppliers may default on natural gas supply obligations and we may be unable to replace supplies currently under contract; • market liquidity for physical natural gas and fuel oil or availability of natural gas and fuel oil services (e.g. storage) may be insufficient or available only at prices that are not acceptable to us; • natural gas and fuel oil quality variation may adversely affect our power plant operations; • our natural gas and fuel oil operations capability may be compromised due to various events such as natural disaster, loss of key personnel or loss of critical infrastructure; and • any other reason such as for residential heating. Our power plants and construction projects are subject to impairments. If we were to experience a significant reduction in our expected revenues and operating cash flows for an extended period of time from a prolonged economic downturn or from advances or changes in technologies, we could experience future impairments of our power plant assets as a result. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our geothermal power reserves may be inadequate for our operations. In connection with each geothermal power plant, we estimate the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient reserves being available for sustained generation of the power capacity desired. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the development and operation of our geothermal reservoirs or accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of our steam reserves. An incorrect estimate or inability to manage our geothermal reserves, or a decline in productivity could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the development and operation of geothermal power resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The successful exploitation of a geothermal power resource ultimately depends upon many factors including the following: • the heat content of the extractable steam or fluids; • the geology of the reservoir; • the total amount of recoverable reserves; • operating expenses relating to the extraction of steam or fluids; • price levels relating to the extraction of steam, fluids or power generated; and • capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Claims that some geothermal power plants cause increased risk of seismic activity could impact our operating procedures and increase our operating costs or, delay or increase the cost of further development at The Geysers. In 2009, as part of a joint private and federally-funded geothermal technology research project, a company unrelated to us commenced deepening an existing geothermal well on a property neighboring our Geysers Assets. The company was reportedly attempting to drill into the hot, low or non-permeable base rock that underlies the existing geothermal steam reservoir at The Geysers to engineer or create a “multilayered heat extraction system” below the reservoir by injecting water under very high pressure, fracturing the rock. This process has spawned public and political concern regarding increased seismicity risk. This company has since officially announced its decision to not move forward with this project, but prior to this announcement, the resulting community concern related to this project brought forth a letter from a local community homeowners association located near our Geysers Assets entitled a “Complaint and Petition” which was signed by “109 residents and property owners.” This letter was sent to the Board of Supervisors’ for the two counties, Lake and Sonoma, where our operations are situated. The letter requested county intervention to abate alleged public nuisance arising from induced seismicity by governmental legal action, including litigation, regulation and ordinances to prevent induced seismicity. However, the letter also stated that it is not their intent to suspend our geothermal operations. No further action has been taken at the local level in response to the community’s “Complaint and Petition.” We have also taken extra steps to increase and broaden our local community outreach efforts. It is possible that government entities or agencies will seek to more stringently regulate the exploration, development and operation of geothermal power plants, including operations of our Geysers Assets, in order to mitigate induced seismicity resulting from geothermal operations, or that operators of geothermal power plants could be subject to property damage claims resulting from increased seismic activity. Any of these events could increase the cost of operating the existing Geysers Assets and may delay or increase further exploration and any further development of our Geysers Assets. Significant events beyond our control, such as natural disasters or acts of terrorism, could damage our power plants or our corporate offices and may impact us in unpredictable ways. Certain of our geothermal and natural gas-fired power plants, particularly in the West, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. More significant seismic disturbances are possible. In addition, other areas in which we operate, particularly in Texas and the Southeast, experience tornados and hurricanes. Similarly, operations at our corporate offices in Houston, Texas could be substantially affected by a hurricane. Such events could damage or shut down our power plants, power transmission or the fuel supply facilities upon which our generation business is dependent. Our existing power plants are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic and other disturbances, and we believe we maintain adequate insurance protection. However, earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance may be inadequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious damages or disturbances to our power plants or our operations due to natural disasters. In addition to physical damage to our power plants, the risk of future terrorist activity could result in adverse changes in the insurance markets and disruptions in the power and fuel markets. These events could also adversely affect the U.S. economy, create instability in the financial markets and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital on terms and conditions acceptable to us. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth if we were unable to replace them. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Some of our employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have 184 employees represented by collective bargaining agreements; however, the amount of employees subject to collective bargaining agreements only represents a small percentage (approximately 9%) of our employee base. We believe we maintain positive relations with these employees and do not anticipate any work stoppages or strikes. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and database services in connection with the operation of our power plants. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. In addition, it is possible we could incur interruptions from computer viruses. We believe that we have positive relations with our related vendors and maintain adequate anti-virus software and controls; however, any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure, or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. Capital Resources; Liquidity We have substantial liquidity needs and could face liquidity pressure. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated debt outstanding was $10.3 billion, of which approximately $4.7 billion was outstanding under our First Lien Notes and $1.2 billion under our First Lien Credit Facility. In addition we had $711 million issued in letters of credit and our pro rata share of unconsolidated subsidiary debt was approximately $247 million. Although we have significantly extended our maturities during 2010 and 2011, we could face liquidity challenges as we continue to have substantial debt and substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to meet margin requirements and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from our operations and our ability to access the capital markets. This, to a certain extent, is dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as discussed further in “— Commercial Operations” above. Although we are permitted to enter into new project financing credit facilities to fund our development and construction activities, there can be no assurance that we will not face liquidity pressure in the future. See additional discussion regarding our capital resources and liquidity in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial indebtedness could adversely impact our financial health and limit our operations. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, potential growth or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flows in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in governmental regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness or to repurchase equity issued by certain of our subsidiaries to third parties; and 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging and optimization activities by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can transact as well as the volume and type of those transactions. The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties including those under our First Lien Notes and Corporate Revolving Facility and other credit and financing arrangements as we routinely execute transactions in connection with our hedging and optimization activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise defaults under a financing agreement. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or access the credit and capital markets in the future at prices that are beneficial to us or at all. If our available cash, including future cash flows generated from operations, is not sufficient in the near term to finance our operations, post collateral or satisfy our obligations as they become due, we may need to access the capital and credit markets. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions. Market disruptions such as those experienced in the U.S. and abroad in 2008 and 2009, may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access capital. In addition, we believe these conditions have and may continue to have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock, which in turn may also reduce our ability to access capital or credit markets. Other factors include: • low credit ratings may prevent us from obtaining any material amount of additional debt financing; • conditions in energy commodity markets; • regulatory developments; • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; • investor confidence in the industry and in us; • the continued reliable operation of our current power plants; and • provisions of tax, regulatory and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. While we have utilized non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, market conditions and other factors may prevent us from completing similar financings in the future. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain the financing required to develop, construct, acquire or expand power plants on terms satisfactory to us. We have financed our existing power plants using a variety of leveraged financing structures, including senior secured and unsecured indebtedness, construction financing, project financing, term loans and lease obligations. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which we do not cure, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the power plant and any related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, we may not be able to retain any interest in the power plant or other collateral supporting such financing. In addition, any such default or foreclosure may trigger cross default provisions in our other financing agreements. Our First Lien Notes, Corporate Revolving Facility, NDH Project Debt and CCFC Notes, and our other debt instruments impose restrictions on us and any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. The restrictions under our First Lien Notes, Corporate Revolving Facility, NDH Project Debt and CCFC Notes and other debt instruments could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs and, if we were unable to comply with these restrictions, could result in 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements an event of default under these debt instruments. These restrictions require us to meet certain financial performance tests on a quarterly basis and limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional first lien indebtedness up to certain consolidated net tangible asset ratios; • enter into certain types of commodity hedge agreements that can be secured by first lien collateral; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make certain investments; • create or incur liens; • consolidate or merge with or transfer all or substantially all of our assets to another entity, or allow substantially all of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • engage in certain business activities; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. Our First Lien Notes, Corporate Revolving Facility, NDH Project Debt and CCFC Notes and our other debt instruments contain events of default customary for financings of their type, including a cross default to debt other than non-recourse project financing debt, a cross-acceleration to non-recourse project financing debt and certain change of control events. If we fail to comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or a default exists and is continuing under such debt, the lenders or the holders or trustee of the First Lien Notes, as applicable, could give notice and declare outstanding borrowings and other obligations under such debt immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, or if obtainable, it could be on terms that are not acceptable to us. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our First Lien Notes, Corporate Revolving Facility, NDH Project Debt and CCFC Notes and our other debt instruments, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if it becomes necessary to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, it could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in our Chapter 11 cases. On December 20, 2005 (the Petition Date), Calpine Corporation and 274 of its wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries filed for voluntary petitions of relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. From the Petition Date through our emergence from Chapter 11 on the Effective Date (January 31, 2008), we operated as a debtor-in-possession under the protection of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. In general, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation of our Plan of Reorganization were discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of our Plan of Reorganization. However, certain disputed claims, including prepayment premium and default interest claims asserted by the holders of CalGen Third Lien Debt, may be required to be settled with available cash and cash equivalents to the extent reorganized Calpine Corporation common stock held in reserve pursuant to our Plan of Reorganization for such claims is insufficient in value to satisfy such claims in full. In order for us to be required to make any 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements settlements in cash, our stock price would need to significantly deteriorate below our stock prices during the period from our emergence through the filing of this Report. We consider such an outcome to be unlikely. Additionally, we dispute allegations that the CalGen Third Lien Debt have claims that remain unsettled or outstanding, or that they continue to have lien rights to the assets of the CalGen entities for the pending claims asserted in the case styled: HSBC Bank USA, NA as Indenture Trustee, et al v. Calpine Corporation, et al. Case No. 1: 07-cv-03088, S.D.N.Y. Recently the district court in the above litigation issued a decision that the holders of the CalGen Third Lien Debt were not entitled, as a matter of law, to a prepayment premium or to attorney’s fees associated with the payoff of the underlying obligations. Further, the district court determined that the holders of the CalGen Third Lien Debt were only entitled to interest as specified in the supporting debt agreements, but did not rule on the issue of this entitlement to default interest on their claims. We believe the holders of the CalGen Third Lien Debt will file an appeal of the judgment entered by the district court. We continue to engage in settlement discussions with the various constituencies in this dispute, but do not expect any settlement, if any, to be material to us. Our credit status is below investment grade, which may restrict our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and restrict financing opportunities. Our corporate and debt credit ratings are below investment grade. There is no assurance that our credit ratings will improve in the future, which may restrict the financing opportunities available to us or may increase the cost of any available financing. Our current credit rating has resulted in the requirement that we provide additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations on our subsidiaries’ and our financial position and results of operations. Certain of our obligations are required to be secured by letters of credit or cash, which increase our costs; if we are unable to provide such security it may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Companies using derivatives, which include many commodity contracts, are subject to the inherent risks of such transactions. Consequently, many such companies, including us, may be required to post cash collateral for certain commodity transactions; and, the level of collateral will increase as a company increases its hedging activities. We use margin deposits, prepayments and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities. Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices, and also based on our credit ratings and general perception of creditworthiness in this market. Certain of our financing arrangements for our power plants have required us to post letters of credit which are at risk of being drawn down in the event we, or the applicable subsidiary, default on our obligations. Additionally, changes in market regulations can increase the use of credit support and collateral. For example, we believe that ERCOT’s implementation of a nodal market in December 2010 resulted in increased collateral requirements of approximately $50 million as of December 31, 2010. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is uncertain, but it is possible that future regulations, when finalized, under the Dodd-Frank Act could directly or indirectly result in increased credit support and collateral requirements. These letter of credit and cash collateral requirements increase our cost of doing business and could have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity, particularly if there was a call for a large amount of additional cash or letter of credit collateral due to an unexpectedly large movement in the market price of a commodity. As of December 31, 2010, we had $711 million issued in letters of credit under our Corporate Revolving Facility and other facilities, with $557 million remaining available for borrowing or for letter of credit support under our Corporate Revolving Facility. In addition, we have ratably secured our obligations under certain of our power and natural gas agreements that qualify as eligible commodity hedge agreements under our Corporate Revolving Facility with the assets currently subject to liens under our First Lien Credit Facility. 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not have sufficient liquidity to hedge market risks effectively. We are exposed to market risks through our sale of power, capacity and related products and the purchase and sale of fuel, transmission services and emission allowances. These market risks include, among other risks, volatility arising from location and timing differences that may be associated with buying and transporting fuel, converting fuel into power and delivering the power to a buyer. We undertake these activities through agreements with various counterparties, many of which require us to provide guarantees, offset or netting arrangements, letters of credit, a second lien on assets and/or cash collateral to protect the counterparties against the risk of our default or insolvency. The amount of such credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market prices can result in our being required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. The effectiveness of our strategy may be dependent on the amount of collateral available to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity requirements may be greater than we anticipate or will be able to meet. Without a sufficient amount of working capital to post as collateral in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin, we may not be able to manage price volatility effectively or to implement our strategy. An increase in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required to be provided to our counterparties may negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, if any of our power plants experience unplanned outages, we may be required to procure replacement power at spot market prices in order to fulfill contractual commitments. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, we may be exposed to significant losses, may miss significant opportunities and may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets. Our ability to receive future cash flows generated from the operation of our subsidiaries may be limited. Almost all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and other affiliates. As a result, we depend almost entirely upon their earnings and cash flows to service our indebtedness, post collateral and finance our ongoing operations. Certain of our project debt and other agreements restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Some of these limitations are subject to a number of significant exceptions (including exceptions permitting such restrictions in connection with certain subsidiary financings). Accordingly, the financing agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions, or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the payment of their other obligations, including their outstanding debt, operating expenses, lease payments and reserves, or during the existence of a default. We may utilize project financing, preferred equity and other types of subsidiary financing transactions when appropriate in the future, which could increase our debt and may be structurally senior to other debt such as our First Lien Notes and Corporate Revolving Facility. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness are limited in some cases by existing indentures, debt instruments or other agreements. Our subsidiaries may incur additional construction/project financing indebtedness, issue preferred equity to finance the acquisition and development of new power plants and engage in certain types of non-recourse financings to the extent permitted by existing agreements, and may continue to do so in order to fund our ongoing operations. Any such newly incurred subsidiary preferred equity would be added to our current consolidated debt levels and would likely be structurally senior to our debt, which could also intensify the risks associated with our already existing leverage. Our First Lien Notes, Corporate Revolving Facility and other parent-company debt is effectively subordinated to certain project indebtedness. Certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and, except in limited circumstances, have no obligation to pay any amounts due with respect to our indebtedness or indebtedness of 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements other subsidiaries or affiliates, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on or principal of such indebtedness. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization (or the bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary or affiliate), such subsidiaries’ or other affiliates’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiaries or affiliates, will generally be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries or affiliates before any assets are made available for distribution to us or the holders of our indebtedness. As a result, holders of our indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all present and future debts and other liabilities (including trade payables) of certain of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, our subsidiaries had approximately $1.3 billion of secured project financing from our NDH Project Debt, approximately $1.0 billion in debt from our CCFC subsidiary and approximately $1.8 billion in secured project financing from other subsidiaries, which are effectively senior to our First Lien Notes and Corporate Revolving Facility. We may incur additional project financing indebtedness in the future, which will be effectively senior to our other secured and unsecured debt. Governmental Regulation Existing and proposed federal and state RPS and energy efficiency, as well as economic support for renewable sources of power under the U.S economic stimulus legislation could adversely impact our operations. Federal policymakers have been considering imposing a national RPS on retail power providers. California already has an RPS in effect and is currently considering new and higher RPS. A number of additional states, including Maine, Minnesota, New York, Texas and Wisconsin, have an array of different RPS in place. Existing state-specific RPS requirements may change due to regulatory and/or legislative initiatives, and other states may consider implementing enforceable RPS in the future. A national RPS or more robust RPS in states in which we are active, coupled with economic incentives provided under the federal stimulus package, would likely initially drive up the number of wind and solar resources, increasing power supply to various markets which could negatively impact the dispatch of our natural gas assets, primarily in Texas and California. Similarly, federal legislators are considering national energy efficiency initiatives. Several states already have energy efficiency initiatives in place while others are considering imposing them. Improved energy efficiency when mandated by law or promoted by government sponsored incentives can decrease demand for power which could negatively impact the dispatch of our gas assets, primarily in Texas and California. Increased legislation for the construction of power plants, such as those passed by the New Jersey and Maryland state senates could adversely impact our competitive position and business. Recently, certain states in the PJM region have taken actions that could impact the PJM capacity market. The Maryland Public Service Commission (“PSC”) has issued for public comment a draft Request for Proposals (“RFP”) for up to 1,800 megawatts of new generation. Similarly, in New Jersey, recently passed legislation requires the Board of Public Utilities (“BPU”) to solicit interest in 2,000 MW of new generation. Either or both of these efforts may result in the award of ratepayer-subsidized long term contracts that could impact the clearing prices of future PJM capacity auctions. The actual impact on capacity auction prices will in part depend on the ultimate outcome of the various state regulatory proceedings (which may be subject to legal challenge) and potential FERC action on PJM tariff provisions that are designed to prevent the abuse of buyer-side market power and artificial price suppression. An industry trade group has filed a FPA Section 206 complaint at FERC, requesting that FERC address this matter on an expedited basis. Increased oversight and investigation by the CFTC relating to derivative transactions, as well as certain financial institutions, could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The CFTC has regulatory oversight of the futures markets, including trading on NYMEX for energy, and licensed futures professionals such as brokers, clearing members and large traders. In connection with its 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements oversight of the futures markets and NYMEX, the CFTC regularly investigates market irregularities and potential manipulation of those markets. Recent laws also give the CFTC certain powers with respect to broker-type markets referred to as “exempt commercial markets” or ECMs, including the Intercontinental Exchange. The CFTC monitors activities in the OTC, ECM, and physical markets that may be undertaken for the purpose of influencing futures prices. With respect to ECMs, the CFTC exercises only light-handed regulation primarily related to price reporting and record retention. Thus, transactions executed on an ECM generally are not regulated directly by the CFTC. However, ECM transactions have come under the CFTC’s scrutiny during investigations of fraud and manipulation in which the CFTC has broadly applied its statutory authority to punish persons who are alleged to have manipulated, or attempted to manipulate, the price of any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery. We also expect the CFTC’s future powers and oversight to be increased by the Dodd-Frank Act (discussed below). The unknown impact from the Dodd-Frank Act as well as the rules to be promulgated under it could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business, require the implementation of additional policies and require us to incur administrative compliance costs. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act addresses regulatory reform of the OTC derivatives market in the U.S. and significantly changes the regulatory framework of this market. Title VII will be effective 360 days from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing regulation is to be completed by the same date. Until these regulations have been finalized, the extent to which the provisions of Title VII might affect our derivatives activities is unknown. A number of features of the legislation may impact our existing business. One of the most significant of these is the requirement for central clearing of many OTC derivatives transactions with clearing organizations. This requirement is subject to an end-user exception which ultimately may or may not be available to us. Whereas our OTC transactions have traditionally been negotiated on a bilateral basis, including the collateral arrangements thereunder, they now will be subject to the collateral and margining procedures of the clearing organization. To the extent the end-user exception is available to us, we may elect not to clear certain transactions. In these instances, the collateral margining requirements for these uncleared transactions might be subject to the requirements prescribed by this regulation. It is not known at this time whether, and, if so, to what extent, we will be required to provide collateral (for both our cleared and uncleared transactions) in excess of what is currently provided under our existing hedging relationships. Other features of the Dodd-Frank Act which will have an impact on our derivatives activities include trade reporting, position limits and trade execution. The effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on traditional dealers and market-makers as well as the consequential effect on or loss of market liquidity on the use of first lien collateral and, hence, pricing is uncertain; however, we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for our derivative transactions. In addition to legislation and rule making provisions related to derivative transactions, the Dodd-Frank Act contains a variety of provisions designed to regulate financial markets. Further, many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, thus making it difficult to assess its impact on us at this time. We expect to successfully implement any new applicable legislative and regulatory requirements and may incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional reporting and disclosure obligations; however, at this time we do not expect such costs to be material to us. Changes in the regulation of the power markets in which we operate could negatively impact us. We have a significant presence in the major competitive power markets for California, Texas and the Mid-Atlantic region of the U.S. While these markets are largely de-regulated, they continue to evolve. Existing regulations within the markets in which we operate may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws or regulations may be issued. We cannot predict the future development of regulation or legislation nor the ultimate effect such changes in these markets could have on our business; however, we could be negatively impacted. 54 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Existing and future anticipated GHG/Carbon and other air emissions regulations could cause us to incur significant costs and adversely affect our operations generally or in a particular quarter when such costs are incurred. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and this trend is likely to continue. In particular, there is growing likelihood that carbon tax or limits on carbon, CO2 and other GHG emissions will be implemented at the federal or expanded at the state or regional levels. In 2009, ten states in the northeast began the compliance period of a cap-and-trade program, RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from power plants. California is in the process of implementing plans for AB 32 which places a statewide cap on GHG emissions and requires the state to return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. In December 2010, CARB adopted a regulation establishing a GHG cap-and trade program which takes effect in 2012 for electric utilities and other “major industrial sources,” and in 2015 for certain other GHG sources. Congress proposed but failed to enact climate change legislation in the last session. The November 2010 election resulted in a change in control of Congress with Republicans controlling the U.S. House of Representatives. While the Senate may continue considering legislation addressing climate change, it is unlikely that such legislation will be enacted in the near term. Instead, we expect the current Administration to place more emphasis on increasing the regulations, powers and activities of the EPA under the CAA. In 2010, the EPA proposed or finalized regulations governing GHG emissions from major sources as well as emissions of criteria pollutants from the electric generation sector. The EPA is expected to propose additional regulations under the CAA addressing hazardous air pollutants. Although we cannot predict the ultimate effect of future changes climate change legislation or regulations could have on our business, we believe we will face a lower compliance burden than some of our competitors due to the relatively low GHG emission rates of our fleet. We continue to monitor and actively participate in the processes where we anticipate an impact on our business. Further, as a result of air regulations recently enacted in New Jersey, certain of our generation assets acquired in the Conectiv Acquisition may need additional NOX controls to continue operating beyond 2015, which may result in additional controls costs to us. The cost of such future controls is uncertain at this time; however, they are not expected to be material or adversely impact our results of operations. We are subject to other complex governmental regulation which could adversely affect our operations. Generally, in the U.S., we are subject to regulation by FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and the sale and transportation of natural gas, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of the power plants. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under the market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generation business. FERC could also impose fines or other restrictions or requirements on us under certain circumstances. The construction and operation of power plants require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the appropriate foreign, federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with numerous environmental laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities. Should we fail to comply with any environmental requirements that apply to power plant construction or operations, we could be subject to administrative, civil and/or criminal liability and fines, and regulatory agencies could take other actions to curtail our operations. Furthermore, certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our power plants, including any soil or groundwater contamination that may be present, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether the liabilities are known or unknown, or arose from the activities of predecessors or third parties. 55 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we were deemed to have market power in certain markets as a result of the ownership of our stock by certain significant shareholders, we could lose FERC authorization to sell power at wholesale at market-based rates in such markets or be required to engage in mitigation in those markets. Certain of our significant shareholder groups own power generating assets, or own significant equity interests in entities with power generating assets, in markets where we currently own power plants. We could be determined to have market power if these existing significant shareholders acquire additional significant ownership or equity interest in other entities with power generating assets in the same markets where we generate and sell power. If FERC makes the determination that we have market power, FERC could, among other things, revoke market-based rate authority for the affected market-based companies or order them to mitigate that market power. If market-based rate authority were revoked for any of our market-based rate companies, those companies would be required to make wholesale sales of power based on cost-of-service rates, which could negatively impact their revenues. If we are required to mitigate market power, we could be required to sell certain power plants in regions where we are determined to have market power. A loss of our market-based rate authority or required sales of power plants, particularly if it affected several of our power plants or was in a significant market such as California, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our principal shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence over corporate transactions and other matters. As of December 31, 2010, three current holders (or related groups of holders) of our common stock have made filings with the SEC reporting beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, individually or as members of a group, of 5% or more of the shares of our common stock. These shareholders, who together beneficially owned approximately 46% of our common stock at December 31, 2010, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions. If two or more of these shareholders (or groups of shareholders) vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give significant influence over the election of our entire Board of Directors and significant influence over our management, operations and affairs. Currently, two members of our Board of Directors, including the Chairman of our Board, are affiliated, directly or indirectly, with SPO Advisory Corp., one of these shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control over us unless it is supported by these shareholders. Accordingly, the ability of our other shareholders to influence us through voting of their shares may be limited or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Additionally, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 registering the resale of the common stock held by certain members of one of the three groups of these shareholders, which permits them to sell a large portion of their shares of common stock without being subject to the “trickle out” or other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. There were no sales during 2010 by shareholders who held more than 5% of our common stock. Sales by the three shareholders of all or a substantial portion of their shares within a short period of time, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or could further concentrate holdings of our common stock in the remaining two shareholders who hold more than 5% of our common stock. 56 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax NOL carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, our NOL carryforwards can be utilized to reduce future taxable income subject to certain limitations, including if we were to undergo an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the IRC. We experienced an ownership change on the Effective Date as a result of the cancellation of our old common stock and the distribution of our new common stock pursuant to our Plan of Reorganization. However, this ownership change and resulting annual limitations are not expected to result in the expiration of our NOL carryforwards if we are able to generate sufficient future taxable income within the carryforward periods. If a subsequent ownership change were to occur as a result of future transactions in our stock, accompanied by a significant reduction in our market value immediately prior to the ownership change, our ability to utilize the NOL carryforwards may be significantly limited. To manage the risk of significant limitations on our ability to utilize our tax NOL carryforwards, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to meet to determine whether to impose certain transfer restrictions on our common stock if, prior to February 1, 2013, our Market Capitalization declines by at least 35% from our Emergence Date Market Capitalization of approximately $8.6 billion (in each case, as defined in and calculated pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation) and at least 25 percentage points of shift in ownership has occurred with respect to our equity for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC. We believe, as of the filing of this Report, neither circumstance was met. While we don’t believe an ownership change of 25 percentage points has occurred, the change in ownership is only slightly less than 25%. Accordingly, the transfer restrictions have not been put in place by our Board of Directors; however, if both of the foregoing events were to occur together and our Board of Directors were to elect to impose them, they could become operative in the future. There can be no assurance that the circumstances will not be met in the future, or in the event that they are met, that our Board of Directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that, if imposed, such restrictions would prevent an ownership change from occurring. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 