Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Bankruptcy We are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy cases as a result of our filing for reorganization. On December 20, 2005, we and many of our U.S. subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, and many of our Canadian subsidiaries similarly filed petitions for relief under the CCAA in the Canadian Court. The U.S. bankruptcy cases have been consolidated and are being jointly administered by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The Canadian cases are being jointly administered by the Canadian Court. Since the original filings, additional subsidiaries have also filed voluntary petitions in the United States and have been joined in the original proceedings. We continue to operate our business as debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Courts and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, the CCAA 38 Table of Contents and orders of the Bankruptcy Courts. For the duration of the bankruptcy cases, our operations will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy which include, among other things: • the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interests in our bankruptcy cases, including official and unofficial committees of creditors and equity holders, which may be inconsistent with our plans; • objections to or limitations on our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the bankruptcy cases that we may seek from time to time or potentially adverse decisions by the Bankruptcy Courts with respect to such motions; • objections to or limitations on our ability to avoid or reject contracts or leases that are burdensome or uneconomical; • the expiration of the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization or delays, limitations or other impediments to our ability to develop, propose, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization; • the ability of third parties to seek and obtain court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization; • our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with customers, vendors and service providers; and • our ability to maintain contracts and leases that are critical to our operations. These risks and uncertainties could negatively affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our bankruptcy filings and events during the bankruptcy cases could adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the bankruptcy cases are protracted. Also, transactions by Calpine Debtors that are outside the ordinary course of business will generally be subject to the prior approval of the applicable Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond on a timely basis to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. In addition, although we have received approval from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court to an extension of the exclusivity period to propose a plan of reorganization, until December 31, 2006, and to seek acceptances thereon until March 31, 2007, if we are unable to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization within that time and are unable to obtain a further extension (or if the period is otherwise shortened or terminated), third parties could propose and seek confirmation of their own plan or plans of reorganization. Any such third party plan or plans could disrupt our business, adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors and employees, or otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our bankruptcy cases, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these cases will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified at this time. The bankruptcy cases may adversely affect our operations going forward. As noted above, our having sought bankruptcy protection may adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms from suppliers, landlords, contract or trading counterparties and others and to attract and retain customers and counterparties. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and to attract and retain customers, as well as other contract or trading counterparties could adversely affect our financial performance. For example, as a result of our bankruptcy filing, certain of our former trading counterparties informed us that they are prohibited by their internal credit policies from continuing to execute trades with us. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries, including CES, have also filed for bankruptcy protection and we may deem it necessary to seek bankruptcy protection for additional subsidiaries as part of our overall restructuring effort. The existence of the bankruptcy cases may adversely affect the way such subsidiaries are perceived by investors, financial markets, trading counterparties, customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities, which could adversely affect our consolidated operations and financial performance. 39 Table of Contents We will be subject to claims made after the date that we filed for bankruptcy and other claims that are not discharged in the bankruptcy cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are currently subject to claims in various legal proceedings, and may become subject to other legal proceedings in the future. Although we will seek to satisfy and discharge all claims made against us prior to the date of the bankruptcy filings (which claims are generally stayed while the bankruptcy proceeding is pending), we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, claims made against our Non-Debtor subsidiaries are not stayed and will not be discharged in the bankruptcy proceeding; and any claims arising after the date of our bankruptcy filing may also not be subject to discharge in the bankruptcy proceeding. See Note 31 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the more significant legal proceedings in which we are presently involved. The ultimate outcome of each of these matters, including our ability to have these matters satisfied and discharged in the bankruptcy proceeding, cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that may potentially result from a negative outcome be reasonably estimated presently for every case. The liability we may ultimately incur with respect to any one of these matters in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently accrued with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may potentially be material to our business or to our financial condition and results of operations. The August 1, 2006 and June 30, 2006, bar dates by which claims must be filed against the U.S. Debtors and the Canadian Debtors, respectively, have not yet passed. Accordingly, it is not possible at this time to determine the extent of the claims that may be filed, whether or not such claims will be disputed, or whether or not such claims will be subject to discharge in the bankruptcy proceedings. Nor is it possible at this time to determine whether to establish any claims reserves. Once applicable bar dates have passed, we will review all claims filed and begin the claims reconciliation process. In connection with the review and reconciliation process, we will also determine the reserves, if any, that may be established in respect of such claims. To the extent that we are unable to resolve any claims filed, or our assets (including any applicable reserves) are inadequate to pay resolved claims, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or our ability to reorganize. In addition, it is likely that certain creditors may assert claims on multiple bases against multiple Calpine Debtor entities, resulting in a total overall claims pool significantly in excess of the amount of the Calpine Debtors’ potential liabilities. For example, there may be multiple claims by one creditor against multiple Calpine Debtors (as debtor and guarantor, joint tortfeasers, etc.), resulting in asserted bankruptcy claims significantly in excess of the amount of the actual underlying liabilities. Alternatively, there may be multiple bankruptcy claims by multiple creditors against a single Calpine Debtor based on different theories of liability, which would also result in asserted bankruptcy claims significantly in excess of the amount of underlying actual liabilities. Therefore, we expect that the amount of bankruptcy claims filed in our bankruptcy cases will be significantly greater than our total consolidated funded debt of approximately $17.4 billion (including deconsolidated Canadian debt) as of December 31, 2005. However, despite the likelihood that there will be bankruptcy claims asserted against the collective Calpine Debtors in excess of their potential liabilities, no individual creditor should receive more than 100% recovery on account of such multiple claims. Our bankruptcy filings have exposed certain of our Non-Debtor subsidiaries to the potential exercise of rights and remedies by debt or equity holders. Our bankruptcy filings and constraints on our business during the bankruptcy cases have resulted in (and could result in additional) defaults under certain project loan agreements of Non-Debtor subsidiaries. These bankruptcy filings and limitations on the ability of certain of the Calpine Debtor subsidiaries to make payments under intercompany agreements with Non-Debtor subsidiaries has resulted in defaults or potential defaults under debt or preferred equity interests issued by or certain lease obligations of certain of those Non-Debtor subsidiaries, including CCFC, CCFCP and Metcalf. Absent cure, waiver or other resolution in respect of these defaults from the applicable creditors or equity holders, we may not be able to prevent the acceleration of the subsidiary debt or lease obligations and the exercise of other remedies against the subsidiaries, including a sale of the equity or assets of such subsidiaries, a termination of the leasehold rights or the enforcement of buy-out rights or other remedies. As of the date of this Report, although we have been able to obtain waivers with respect to certain defaults, we have not been able to obtain waivers or forbearances from or enter into other arrangements with certain project lenders, lessors and shareholders with respect to other defaults, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. If we are unable to obtain waivers or make other arrangements with respect to current or future 40 Table of Contents defaults, if any, under debt, preferred equity or leases of Non-Debtor subsidiaries, such Non-Debtor subsidiaries may be adversely affected, or the holders of debt or equity of such Non-Debtor subsidiaries may take actions or exercise remedies, including sales of the assets of such Non-Debtor subsidiaries, which may cause adverse effects to our financial condition or results of operations as a whole. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity in connection with our restructuring, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carryforwards of approximately $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2005. Our ability to deduct NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of our Chapter 11 cases. During the pendency of the bankruptcy proceeding, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in our common stock or certain securities, including options, convertible into our common stock. However, we can provide no assurances that these limitations will prevent an “ownership change” or that our ability to utilize our net loss carryforwards may not be significantly limited as a result of our reorganization. On April 17, 2006, we announced that, primarily due to the inability under generally accepted accounting principles to assume future profits and due to our reduced ability to implement tax planning strategies to utilize our NOLs while in bankruptcy, we had concluded that valuation allowances on a portion of our deferred tax assets were required. The additional valuation allowances related to these assets recorded in the financial statements included in this Report for the year ended December 31, 2005, total approximately $1.6 billion. In addition, we expect that a portion of the losses that we expect to incur in 2006 will not generate tax benefits and, therefore, additional valuation allowances may be required. Canadian Debtors and their creditors may advance claims against the U.S. Debtors. In accordance with procedures under the CCAA, Ernst & Young Inc. was appointed as monitor and has provided reports to the Canadian Court from time to time on various matters including the Canadian Debtors’ cash flow, asset transfers and other developments in the Canadian cases. (The monitor’s reports have been made generally available on the monitor’s website at www.ey.com/ca/calpinecanada; however, we are not responsible for the monitor’s reports or the other contents of that website, none of which is a part of this Report.) On March 30, 2006, the monitor issued a report containing its preliminary overview of the assets, liabilities and equity of the Canadian Debtors. The report indicates, among other things, that the claims of creditors of the Canadian Debtors, which includes approximately $3 billion of Senior Notes issued by ULC I and ULC II and guaranteed by Calpine Corporation, exceeds the value of the remaining assets of the Canadian Debtors on a stand-alone basis. The most significant assets of the Canadian Debtors, including Saltend and the Canadian oil and gas assets, were sold in 2004 and 2005. The Canadian Debtors intend to file a plan or plans of compromise and arrangement under the CCAA with a view to maximizing realizations to their creditors and resolving inter-creditor disputes without protracted litigation. It is possible that the creditors of the Canadian Debtors will apply to the Canadian Court to lift the stay of proceedings to have some or all of the Canadian Debtors petitioned into bankruptcy in Canada (a proceeding that is generally the equivalent of a liquidation proceeding under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States). In either case, the proceeds of realization will be used to make payments to the creditors of the Canadian Debtors. It is expected that the proceeds of such sales would not be sufficient to fully satisfy the claims of such creditors. At least some of the creditors of the Canadian Debtors may assert claims in the U.S. bankruptcy cases for any unpaid portion of their claims. Claims based upon guarantees provided by us of obligations of ULC I and ULC II, or claims of other creditors of the Canadian Debtors who had received a guarantee from or otherwise had recourse to a U.S. Debtor, could be made against the U.S. Debtors in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Such claims, which would be unsecured, would likely be in excess of $2 billion. In addition, certain Canadian Debtors have claims on account of inter-company indebtedness, which may be advanced against certain U.S. Debtors in the U.S. bankruptcy cases. Such claims, which would be unsecured, would likely be in excess of $2 billion. 41 Table of Contents Our successful reorganization will depend on our ability to motivate key employees and successfully implement new strategies. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. In particular, the successful implementation of our business plan and our ability to successfully consummate a plan of reorganization will be highly dependent upon our new Chief Executive Officer and our new Chief Financial Officer and Chief Restructuring Officer, as well as other members of our senior management. Our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees is restricted by provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, which limit or prevent our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate key employees to remain with the Company during the pendency of the bankruptcy cases. In addition, we must obtain U.S. Bankruptcy Court approval of employment contracts and other employee compensation programs. The process of obtaining such approvals, including negotiating with certain official and unofficial creditor committees (which may raise objections to or otherwise limit our ability to implement such contracts or programs), has resulted in delays and reduced potential compensation for many employees. Certain employees, including certain members of our executive management, have resigned following our bankruptcy filings. The loss of the services of such individuals or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon the implementation of our business plan, including our restructuring program, and on our ability to successfully reorganize and emerge from bankruptcy. We have recognized impairment and other charges of $7.1 billion for the period ending December 31, 2005 to certain of our projects and other assets and could recognize additional impairment charges in the future. As a result of the convergence of multiple facts and circumstances arising during the fourth quarter of 2005, we determined that certain of our projects and other assets had been impaired. These facts and circumstances include, among other things, restrictions on our ability to commit to expending additional capital on such projects due to Bankruptcy Court orders, required approvals of our official and unofficial creditors’ committees and the provisions of the DIP Facility, as well as our focus on reorganizing and emerging from bankruptcy and our inability to secure long term PPAs for such facilities in part due to credit support requirements imposed by potential counterparties both prior to and after our bankruptcy filings. As a result, in 2005 we recorded impairment charges totaling approximately (i) $2.4 billion with respect to certain of our operating projects, (ii) $2.1 billion with respect to certain of our development and construction assets, and other investments, (iii) $0.9 billion related to our investment in our Canadian subsidiaries, which have been deconsolidated as a result of our Canadian filings, and (iv) $0.1 billion with respect to deferred financing costs related to debt subject to compromise following our bankruptcy filings. In addition, primarily due to the inability under GAAP to assume future profits and due to our reduced ability to implement tax planning strategies to utilize our NOL carryforwards while in bankruptcy, we recorded valuation allowances of approximately $1.6 billion on a portion of our deferred tax assets. It is possible that we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future with respect to our projects and other assets and, because we expect that a portion of our losses expected to be incurred in 2006 will not generate tax benefits, additional valuation allowances may be required. The prices of our debt and equity securities are volatile and, in connection with our reorganization, holders of our securities may receive no payment, or payment that is less than the face value or purchase price of such securities. Prior to our bankruptcy filing, the market price for our common stock was volatile and, following our bankruptcy filing, the price of our common stock has generally been less than $.30 per share. Prices for our debt securities and preferred equity securities are also volatile and prices for such securities (in particular those issued by Calpine Debtors) have generally been substantially below par following our bankruptcy filing. In addition, following the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, none of our securities are listed on an exchange, and many series of our securities are not registered with the SEC. Accordingly, trading in the securities of both Calpine Debtors and Non-Debtors may be limited and holders of such securities may not be able to resell their securities for their purchase price or at all. We can make no assurance that the price of our securities will not fluctuate substantially in the future. It is possible that, in connection with our reorganization, all of the outstanding shares of our common stock could be cancelled, and holders of our common stock may not be entitled to any payment in respect of their shares. In addition, new shares of our common stock may be issued. It is also possible that our obligations to holders of debt or preferred equity securities of Calpine Debtors may be satisfied by payments to such 42 Table of Contents holders that are less than both the par value of such securities and the price at which holders purchased such securities, or that shares of our common stock may be issued to certain of such holders in satisfaction of their claims. The value of any common stock so issued may be less than the par value or purchase price of such holders’ securities, and the price of any such common shares may be volatile. Accordingly, trading in our securities during the pendency of our bankruptcy cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks to purchasers of such securities, as holders may not be able to resell such securities or, in connection with our reorganization, may receive no payment, or a payment or other consideration that is less than the par value or the purchase price of such securities. Bankruptcy laws may limit our secured creditors’ ability to realize value from their collateral. Upon the commencement of a case for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, a secured creditor is prohibited from repossessing its security from a debtor in a bankruptcy case, or from disposing of security repossessed from such debtor, without bankruptcy court approval. Moreover, the Bankruptcy Code generally permits the debtor to continue to retain and use collateral even though the debtor is in default under the applicable debt instruments, provided that the secured creditor is given “adequate protection.” The meaning of the term “adequate protection” may vary according to circumstances, but it is intended in general to protect the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral and may include cash payments or the granting of additional security if and at such times as the bankruptcy court in its discretion determines that the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral is declining during the pendency of the bankruptcy case. A bankruptcy court may determine that a secured creditor may not require compensation for a diminution in the value of its collateral if the value of the collateral exceeds the debt it secures. In view of the lack of a precise definition of the term “adequate protection” and the broad discretionary power of a bankruptcy court, it is impossible to predict: • how long payments under our secured debt could be delayed as a result of the bankruptcy cases; • whether or when secured creditors (or their applicable agents) could repossess or dispose of collateral; • the value of the collateral; or • whether or to what extent secured creditors would be compensated for any delay in payment or loss of value of the collateral through the requirement of “adequate protection.” In addition, the instruments governing certain of our indebtedness provide that the secured creditors (or their applicable agents) may not object to a number of important matters following the filing of a bankruptcy petition. Accordingly, it is possible that the value of the collateral securing our indebtedness could materially deteriorate and secured creditors would be unable to raise an objection. Furthermore, if the U.S. Bankruptcy Court determines that the value of the collateral is not sufficient to repay all amounts due on applicable secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness would hold a secured claim to only the extent of the value of their collateral and would otherwise hold unsecured claims with respect to any shortfall. The Bankruptcy Code generally permits the payment and accrual of post-petition interest, costs and attorney’s fees to a secured creditor during a debtor’s bankruptcy case only to the extent the value of its collateral is determined by the Bankruptcy Court to exceed the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the obligations secured by the collateral. We are subject to additional risks and uncertainties associated with revisions to the Bankruptcy Code that took effect in October 2005. President Bush signed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 on April 20, 2005. Revisions to the Bankruptcy Code contained in that Act generally became effective 180 days thereafter, in October 2005, and were in effect at the time we and many of our U.S. subsidiaries filed our Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions on December 20, 2005. These revisions to the Bankruptcy Code present additional potential risks and uncertainties associated with our bankruptcy cases. Some of the revisions may make it more difficult for us to enforce or obtain certain rights and remedies in Bankruptcy Court, such as with respect to the rejection of certain executory contracts or unexpired real property leases. The revisions also may shorten the time frames in which we must take certain actions, including determining whether to assume or reject unexpired real property leases and filing and seeking 43 Table of Contents confirmation of a plan of reorganization. In addition, the revisions may limit or prevent our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate key employees to remain with the Company during the pendency of the bankruptcy cases. It may make it more difficult to predict or anticipate a particular outcome because the revisions are new and have not been tested in a case as large or as complex as ours, and so could have unanticipated consequences for us or our creditors. Accordingly, as a result of the recent Bankruptcy Code revisions, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainty in our bankruptcy cases, which we cannot fully predict or quantify at this time. Our emergence from bankruptcy is not assured. Our plan of reorganization has not yet been formulated or submitted to the Bankruptcy Court. While we expect to emerge from bankruptcy in the future, there can be no assurance that we will successfully reorganize or, if we do, of the timing. Capital Resources; Liquidity Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While in bankruptcy, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance post-bankruptcy. In addition, upon emergence from bankruptcy, the amounts reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements may materially change relative to historical consolidated financial statements, including as a result of revisions to our operating plans pursuant to our plan of reorganization. In addition, as part of our emergence from bankruptcy protection, we may be required to adopt fresh start accounting in a future period. If fresh start accounting is applicable, our assets and liabilities will be recorded at fair value as of the fresh start reporting date. The fair value of our assets and liabilities may differ materially from the recorded values of assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, if fresh start accounting is required, the financial results of the Company after the application of fresh start accounting may be different from historical trends. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our accounting while in bankruptcy. We have substantial liquidity needs and face significant liquidity pressure. At December 31, 2005, our cash and cash equivalents were $785.6 million. In addition, we have entered into the $2 billion DIP Facility, under which, at December 31, 2005, we had outstanding borrowings of $25 million under the $1 billion revolving commitment and no loans under the term loan commitments. We continue to have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business and face significant liquidity challenges. Because of our low credit ratings and the restrictions against additional borrowing in our DIP Facility, we believe we may not be able to obtain any material amount of additional debt financing during our bankruptcy cases. Our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern, including our ability to meet our ongoing operational obligations, is dependent upon, among other things: (i) our ability to maintain adequate cash on hand; (ii) our ability to generate cash from operations; (iii) the cost, duration and outcome of the restructuring process; (iv) our ability to comply with our DIP Facility agreement and the adequate assurance provisions of the Cash Collateral Order and (v) our ability to achieve profitability following a restructuring. In conjunction with our advisors, we are working to design and implement strategies to ensure that we maintain adequate liquidity. However, there can be no assurance as to the success of such efforts. Our DIP Facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us; any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. These restrictions could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs and could result in an event of default under the DIP Facility. These restrictions limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and issue stock; • make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part; 44 Table of Contents • pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • use DIP Loans for non-US Debtors or make inter-company loans to non-US Debtors; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates on other than arms-length terms; • create or incur liens to secure debt; • consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; • make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; • engage in certain business activities; and • acquire facilities or other businesses. These limitations include, among other things, limitations on our ability to incur or secure additional indebtedness, make investments, or sell certain assets. Our ability to comply with these covenants depends in part on our ability to implement our restructuring program during the bankruptcy cases. If we are unable to achieve the targets associated with our restructuring program and the other elements of our business plan, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. The DIP Facility contains events of default customary for DIP financings of this type, including cross defaults and certain change of control events. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the DIP Facility and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment or a default exists and is continuing under the DIP Facility, the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings and other obligations under the DIP Facility immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to comply with the terms of the DIP Facility, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or, if it became necessary, to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, it could adversely impact the timing of, and our ultimate ability to successfully implement a plan of reorganization. To service our indebtedness and other potential liquidity requirements we will require a significant amount of cash. We have substantial indebtedness that we incurred to finance the acquisition and development of power generation facilities. As of December 31, 2005, our total funded debt was $17.4 billion (including $15.4 billion of consolidated debt and approximately $2.0 billion of unconsolidated debt of wholly owned subsidiaries), our total consolidated assets were $20.5 billion and our stockholders’ deficit was $(5.5) billion. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness (including interest payments on our DIP Facility and our other outstanding secured indebtedness) and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to meet all of our commitments. The DIP Facility requires that, subject to limited exceptions, cash proceeds from disposition of assets be used to prepay the loans under the DIP Facility. Whether we will be able to meet our debt service obligations during the pendency of our bankruptcy cases, and whether we will be able to successfully implement a plan of reorganization will depend primarily upon the operational performance of our power generation facilities, movements in electric and natural gas prices over time, our marketing and risk management activities, our ability to successfully implement our 45 Table of Contents business plan, including our restructuring program, and our ability to consummate a plan of reorganization, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. This high level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging, optimization and trading transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can transact as well as the volume of those transactions. We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and other liquidity requirements. Our ability to successfully consummate a plan of reorganization, to make payments on our DIP Facility and other secured debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future. Following our Chapter 11 filing, we have obtained cash from our operations and borrowings under our DIP Facility. Taking into account our debt service and repayment obligations, our remaining significantly scaled-back construction program, research and development and other planned capital expenditures, we are currently projecting that unrestricted cash on hand together with cash from operations will not by itself be sufficient to meet our cash and liquidity needs for the year. The budget for our DIP Facility takes this shortfall into account, and we expect to have sufficient resources and borrowing capacity under the DIP Facility to meet all of our commitments throughout the projected term of our bankruptcy case. However, the success of our business plan, including our restructuring program, and ultimately our plan of reorganization, will depend on our being able to achieve our budgeted operating results. We anticipate enhancing our margin for error by completing asset sale transactions and otherwise significantly reducing our expenses through announced programs but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. In addition, our performance could be impacted to some degree by a number of factors, including general economic and capital market conditions; conditions in energy markets; regulatory approvals and developments; limitations imposed by our existing agreements; and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to secure additional financing in the future. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors. Access to capital (including any extension or refinancing) for participants in the energy sector, including for us, has been significantly restricted since late 2001 and may be further restricted in the future as a result of our bankruptcy filings. Other factors include: • general economic and capital market conditions; • conditions in energy markets; • regulatory developments; • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers, as well as the economy in general; • investor confidence in the industry and in us; • the continued reliable operation of our current power generation facilities; and • provisions of tax and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. 46 Table of Contents We have financed our existing power generation facilities using a variety of leveraged financing structures, consisting of senior secured and unsecured indebtedness, including construction financing, project financing, revolving credit facilities, term loans and lease obligations. Each project financing and lease obligation was structured to be fully paid out of cash flow provided by the facility or facilities financed or leased. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which we do not cure, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the facility and any related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, we might not retain any interest in the facility. While we may utilize non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, market conditions and other factors may prevent similar financing for future facilities. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain the financing required to develop our power generation facilities on terms satisfactory to us. We have from time to time guaranteed certain obligations of our subsidiaries and other affiliates. Our lenders or lessors may also seek to have us guarantee the indebtedness for future facilities. Guarantees render our general corporate funds vulnerable in the event of a default by the facility or related subsidiary. Additionally, certain of our debt instruments may restrict our ability to guarantee future debt, which could adversely affect our ability to fund new facilities. As a result of our impaired credit status due to our bankruptcy and earlier credit ratings downgrades, our operations may be restricted and our liquidity requirements increased. As a result of our bankruptcy and prior credit ratings downgrades, our credit status has been impaired. Such impairment has had a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing attractive financing opportunities and increasing the amount of collateral required by our trading counterparties. In addition, fewer trading counterparties are currently able to do business with us, which reduces our ability to negotiate more favorable terms with them. We expect that our perceived creditworthiness will continue to be impaired throughout the pendency of our bankruptcy cases, and we can make no assurances that our credit ratings will improve in the future. Our impaired credit has resulted in the requirement that we provide additional collateral, letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations, and has increased our cost of capital, made our efforts to raise capital more difficult and had an adverse impact on our subsidiaries’ and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, in light of our bankruptcy filings and our current credit ratings, many of our customers and counterparties are requiring that our and our subsidiaries’ obligations be secured by letters of credit or cash. Banks issuing letters of credit for our or our subsidiaries’ accounts are similarly requiring that the reimbursement obligations be cash-collateralized. In a typical commodities transaction, the amount of security that must be posted can change daily depending on the mark-to-market value of the transaction. These letter of credit and cash collateral requirements increase our cost of doing business and could have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity, particularly if there were a call for a large amount of additional cash or letter of credit collateral due to an unexpectedly large movement in the market price of a commodity. In addition, our CalBear transaction with Bear Stearns, which we had expected over time to reduce our cash and letter of credit collateral requirements as trades would be executed through Bear Stearns’ wholly owned subsidiary CalBear, has been terminated. Although our collateral requirements had not yet been significantly impacted as the CalBear transaction was in its initial stages, we will not be able to take advantage of the future benefits that the CalBear transaction was expected to have provided. We may use up to $300 million of the revolving credit facility under our DIP Facility for letters of credit, which in addition to cash available under the DIP Facility we believe will be sufficient to satisfy our collateral requirements; however, there can be no assurance that such amounts will be sufficient. While we are exploring with counterparties and financial institutions various alternative approaches to credit support, there can be no assurance that we will be able to provide alternative credit support in lieu of cash collateral or letter of credit posting requirements. Our ability to generate cash depends upon the performance of our subsidiaries. Almost all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and other affiliates. As a result, we depend almost entirely upon their earnings and cash flow to service our indebtedness, including our DIP Facility, and otherwise to fund our operations. The financing agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions, or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the payment of their other obligations, including their outstanding debt, operating expenses, lease payments and reserves. While certain of our indentures and other debt instruments limit our ability to enter into agreements that 47 Table of Contents restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, these limitations are subject to a number of significant exceptions (including exceptions permitting such restrictions arising out of subsidiary financings). We may utilize project financing, preferred equity and other types of subsidiary financing transactions when appropriate in the future. Our indentures and other debt instruments place limitations on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness. However, they permit our subsidiaries to incur additional construction/project financing indebtedness and to issue preferred stock to finance the acquisition and development of new power generation facilities and to engage in certain types of non-recourse financings and issuance of preferred stock. In addition, if any such financing were undertaken during the pendency of our bankruptcy cases, it would also require the approval of the applicable Bankruptcy Court [and potentially of certain of our other creditors or statutory committees]. If new subsidiary debt and preferred stock is added to our current debt levels, the risks associated with our substantial leverage could intensify. Our senior notes and our other senior debt are effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries and other affiliates and may be effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. Our subsidiaries and other affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and, except in limited circumstances, have no obligation to pay any amounts due with respect to indebtedness of Calpine Corporation or indebtedness of other subsidiaries or affiliates, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on or principal of such indebtedness. In connection with our bankruptcy cases, we expect that such subsidiaries’ or other affiliates’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiaries or affiliates, will generally be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries or affiliates before any of those assets are made available for distribution to Calpine Corporation or the holders of Calpine Corporation’s indebtedness. As a result, holders of Calpine Corporation indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all present and future debts and other liabilities (including trade payables) of its subsidiaries and affiliates, and holders of debt of one of such subsidiaries or affiliates will effectively be so subordinated with respect to all other subsidiaries and affiliates. As of December 31, 2005, our subsidiaries had $5.8 billion of secured construction/project financing (including the CCFC and CalGen financings). In addition, our unsecured notes and our other unsecured debt are effectively subordinated to all of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our secured indebtedness includes our $666.7 million in outstanding First Priority Notes and DIP Facility and our $3.7 billion in outstanding Second-Priority Notes and Term Loans. The First Priority Notes and Second-Priority Notes and Term Loans are secured by, respectively, first-priority and second-priority liens on, among other things, substantially all of the assets owned directly by Calpine Corporation, power plant assets and the equity in subsidiaries directly owned by Calpine Corporation. Our $784.5 million of CCFC term loans and notes outstanding as of December 31, 2005, are secured by the assets and contracts associated with the six natural gas-fired electric generating facilities owned by CCFC and its subsidiaries and the CCFC lenders’ and note holders’ recourse is limited to such security. Our $2.4 billion of CalGen secured institutional term loans, notes and revolving credit facility are secured, through a combination of direct and indirect stock pledges and asset liens, by CalGen’s 14 power generating facilities and related assets located throughout the United States, and the CalGen lenders’ and note holders’ recourse is limited to such security. We have additional non-recourse project financings, secured in each case by the assets of the project being financed. Operations Revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or termination of our PPAs. Some of the electricity we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term PPAs that expire at various times. We also sell power under short to intermediate term (one to five year) PPAs. When the terms of each of these various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of electricity under subsequent arrangements may be reduced significantly. Our power sales contracts have an aggregate value in excess of current market prices (measured over the next five years) of approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005. Values for our long-term commodity contracts are calculated using discounted cash flows derived as the difference between contractually based 48 Table of Contents cash flows and the cash flows to buy or sell similar amounts of the commodity on market terms. Inherent in these valuations are significant assumptions regarding future prices, correlations and volatilities, as applicable. Because our power sales contracts are marked to market, the aggregate value of the contracts noted above could decrease in response to changes in the market. We are at risk of loss in margins to the extent that these contracts expire or are terminated and we are unable to replace them on comparable terms. We have four customers with which we have multiple contracts that, when combined, constitute greater than 10% of this value: CDWR $0.3 billion, PG&E $0.7 billion, Wisconsin Power & Light $0.2 billion, and Carolina Power & Light $0.2 billion. The values by customer are comprised of these multiple individual contracts that expire beginning in 2008 and contain termination provisions standard to contracts in our industry such as negligence, performance default or prolonged events of force majeure. Use of commodity contracts, including standard power and gas contracts (many of which constitute derivatives), can create volatility in earnings and may require significant cash collateral. During 2005 we recognized $11.4 million in mark-to-market gains on electric power and natural gas derivatives after recognizing $13.4 million in gains in 2004 and $26.4 million in losses in 2003. Additionally, we recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, an after-tax gain of approximately $181.9 million from the adoption of DIG Issue No. C20, “Scope Exceptions: Interpretation of the Meaning of Not Clearly and Closely Related in Paragraph 10(b) regarding Contracts with a Price Adjustment Feature” on October 1, 2003. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Application of Critical Accounting Policies,” for a detailed discussion of the accounting requirements relating to electric power and natural gas derivatives. In addition, GAAP treatment of derivatives in general, and particularly in our industry, continues to evolve. We may enter into other transactions in future periods that require us to mark various derivatives to market through earnings. The nature of the transactions that we enter into and the volatility of natural gas and electric power prices will determine the volatility of earnings that we may experience related to these transactions. Companies using derivatives, many of which are commodity contracts, are sensitive to the inherent risks of such transactions. Consequently (and for us, as a result of our bankruptcy and credit rating downgrades), many companies, including us, are required to post cash collateral for certain commodity transactions in excess of what was previously required. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, to support commodity transactions, we had margin deposits with third parties of $287.5 million and $276.5 million, respectively; we made gas and power prepayments of $103.2 million and $80.5 million, respectively; and had letters of credit outstanding of $88.1 million and $115.9 million, respectively. Counterparties had deposited with us $27.0 million and $27.6 million as margin deposits at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We use margin deposits, prepayments and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities. Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices and also based on our credit ratings and general perception of creditworthiness in this market. See also “— Capital Resources; Liquidity — As a result of our impaired credit status due to our bankruptcy and earlier credit ratings downgrades, our operations may be restricted and our liquidity requirements increased,” above. We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas in the future. To date, our fuel acquisition strategy has included various combinations of our own gas reserves, gas prepayment contracts, short-, medium-and long-term supply contracts, acquisition of gas in storage and gas hedging transactions. In our gas supply arrangements, we attempt to match the fuel cost with the fuel component included in the facility’s PPAs in order to minimize a project’s exposure to fuel price risk. In addition, the focus of CES is to manage the spark spread for our portfolio of generating plants and we actively enter into hedging transactions to lock in gas costs and spark spreads. We believe that there will be adequate supplies of natural gas available at reasonable prices for each of our facilities when current gas supply agreements expire. However, gas supplies may not be available for the full term of the facilities’ PPAs, and gas prices may increase significantly. Additionally, our credit ratings may inhibit our ability to procure gas supplies from third parties. If gas is not available, or if gas prices increase above the level that can be recovered in electricity prices, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 49 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2004, we obtained approximately 7% of our physical natural gas supply needs through owned natural gas reserves. Following the sale of our oil and natural gas assets in 2005, we no longer satisfied any of our natural gas supply needs through owned natural gas reserves. Since that time, we obtain our physical natural gas supply from the market and utilize the natural gas financial markets to hedge our exposures to natural gas price risk. Our current less than investment grade credit rating increases the amount of collateral that certain of our suppliers require us to post for purchases of physical natural gas supply and hedging instruments. To the extent that we do not have cash or other means of posting credit, we may be unable to procure an adequate supply of natural gas or natural gas hedging instruments. In addition, the fact that our deliveries of natural gas depend upon the natural gas pipeline infrastructure in markets where we operate power plants exposes us to supply disruptions in the unusual event that the pipeline infrastructure is damaged or disabled. Our power project development and acquisition activities may not be successful. The development of power generation facilities is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power generation facility, we must generally obtain: • necessary power generation equipment; • governmental permits and approvals; • fuel supply and transportation agreements; • sufficient equity capital and debt financing; • electrical transmission agreements; • water supply and wastewater discharge agreements; and • site agreements and construction contracts. To the extent that our development activities continue or resume, we may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these matters or in doing so on a timely basis. In addition, project development is subject to substantial risks including various environmental, engineering and construction risks relating to equipment, permitting, financing, obtaining necessary construction and operating agreements (including related to fuel supply and transportation and electrical transmission), cost-overruns, delays and performance targets. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks in the development of a project by securing a favorable PPA, obtaining all required governmental permits and approvals, and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. If we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we might not be able to recover our investment in the project and may be required to recognize additional impairments. The process for obtaining initial environmental, siting and other governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the development of power generation facilities in the future or that we will be able to successfully complete construction of our facilities currently in development, nor can we assure you that any of these facilities will be profitable or have value equal to the investment in them even if they do achieve commercial operation. Our projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled. The commencement of operation of a newly constructed power generation facility involves many risks, including: • start-up problems; • the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; and • performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. New plants have no operating history and may employ recently developed and technologically complex equipment. Insurance (including a layer of insurance provided by a captive insurance subsidiary) is maintained to protect against certain risks, warranties are generally obtained for limited periods relating to the 50 Table of Contents construction of each project and its equipment in varying degrees, and contractors and equipment suppliers are obligated to meet certain performance levels. The insurance, warranties or performance guarantees, however, may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, a project may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its financing obligations and may operate at a loss. A default under such a financing obligation, unless cured, could result in our losing our interest in a power generation facility. In certain situations, PPAs entered into with a utility early in the development phase of a project may enable the utility to terminate the PPA or to retain security posted as liquidated damages under the PPA. The situations that could allow a utility to terminate a PPA or retain posted security as liquidated damages include: • the cessation or abandonment of the development, construction, maintenance or operation of the facility; • failure of the facility to achieve construction milestones by agreed upon deadlines, subject to extensions due to force majeure events; • failure of the facility to achieve commercial operation by agreed upon deadlines, subject to extensions due to force majeure events; • failure of the facility to achieve certain output minimums; • failure by the facility to make any of the payments owing to the utility under the PPA or to establish, maintain, restore, extend the term of, or increase the posted security if required by the PPA; • a material breach of a representation or warranty or failure by the facility to observe, comply with or perform any other material obligation under the PPA; • failure of the facility to obtain material permits and regulatory approvals by agreed upon deadlines; or • the liquidation, dissolution, insolvency or bankruptcy of the project entity. Our power generation facilities may not operate as planned. Upon completion of our projects currently under construction, we will operate 95 of the 97 power plants in which we currently have an interest. The continued operation of power generation facilities, including, upon completion of construction, the facilities owned directly by us, involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. From time to time our power generation facilities have experienced equipment breakdowns or failures, and in 2005 we recorded expenses totaling approximately $33.8 million for these breakdowns or failures compared to $54.3 million in 2004. Continued high failure rates of Siemens-Westinghouse provided equipment represent the highest risk for such breakdowns, although we have programs in place that we believe will eventually substantially reduce these failures and provide plants with Siemens-Westinghouse equipment availability factors competitive with plants using other manufacturers’ equipment. Although our facilities contain various redundancies and back-up mechanisms, a breakdown or failure may prevent the affected facility from performing under any applicable PPAs. Although insurance is maintained to partially protect against operating risks, the proceeds of insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, we could be unable to service principal and interest payments under our financing obligations which could result in losing our interest in one or more power generation facility. Our geothermal energy reserves may be inadequate for our operations. The development and operation of geothermal energy resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties similar to those experienced in the development of oil and gas resources. The successful exploitation of a geothermal energy resource ultimately depends upon: • the heat content of the extractable steam or fluids; • the geology of the reservoir; 51 Table of Contents • the total amount of recoverable reserves; • operating expenses relating to the extraction of steam or fluids; • price levels relating to the extraction of steam or fluids or power generated; and • capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. In connection with each geothermal power plant, we estimate the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient reserves being available for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired. An incorrect estimate by us or an unexpected decline in productivity could, if material, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Geothermal reservoirs are highly complex. As a result, there exist numerous uncertainties in determining the extent of the reservoirs and the quantity and productivity of the steam reserves. Reservoir engineering is an inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of steam or fluids that cannot be measured in any precise way, and depends significantly on the quantity and accuracy of available data. As a result, the estimates of other reservoir specialists may differ materially from ours. Estimates of reserves are generally revised over time on the basis of the results of drilling, testing and production that occur after the original estimate was prepared. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage the development and operation of our geothermal reservoirs or that we will accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of our steam reserves. Seismic disturbances could damage our projects. Areas where we operate and are developing many of our geothermal and gas-fired projects are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. More significant seismic disturbances are possible. Our existing power generation facilities are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic disturbances, and we believe we maintain adequate insurance protection. However, earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance may be inadequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious seismic disturbances. Additionally, insurance for these risks may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: • seasonal variations in energy prices; • variations in levels of production; • the timing and size of acquisitions; and • the completion of development and construction projects. Additionally, because we receive the majority of capacity payments under some of our PPAs during the months of May through October, our revenues and results of operations are, to some extent, seasonal. Market Competition could adversely affect our performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies, marketing and trading companies, and other IPPs. In recent years, there has been increasing competition among generators in an effort to obtain PPAs, and this competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets. In addition, many states are implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power industry. For instance, the CPUC issued decisions that provided that all California electric users taking service from a regulated public utility could elect to receive direct access service commencing April 1998; however, the CPUC suspended the offering of direct access to any customer not receiving direct access service as of September 20, 2001, due to the problems experienced in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. As a result, uncertainty exists as to the future course for direct access in California in the aftermath of the energy crisis in that state. In Texas, legislation phased in a deregulated 52 Table of Contents power market, which commenced on January 1, 2001. This competition has put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity, and increasing competition in the supply of electricity in the future will increase this pressure. California Power Market The volatility in the California power market from mid-2000 through mid-2001 has produced significant unanticipated results, and as described in the following risk factors, the unresolved issues arising in that market, where 42 of our 99 power plants are located, could adversely affect our performance. We may be required to make refund payments to the CalPX and CAISO as a result of the California Refund Proceeding. On August 2, 2000, the California Refund Proceeding was initiated by a complaint made at the FERC, by SDG&E under Section 206 of the FPA alleging, among other things, that the markets operated by CAISO, and the CalPX, were dysfunctional. FERC established a refund effective period of October 2, 2000, to June 19, 2001 (the “Refund Period”), for sales made into those markets. On December 12, 2002, an Administrative Law Judge issued a Certification of Proposed Finding on California Refund Liability (“December 12 Certification”) making an initial determination of refund liability. On March 26, 2003, FERC issued an order (the “March 26 Order”) adopting many of the findings set forth in the December 12 Certification. In addition, as a result of certain findings by the FERC staff concerning the unreliability or misreporting of certain reported indices for gas prices in California during the Refund Period, FERC ordered that the basis for calculating a party’s potential refund liability be modified by substituting a gas proxy price based upon gas prices in the producing areas plus the tariff transportation rate for the California gas price indices previously adopted in the California Refund Proceeding. We believe, based on the available information, that any refund liability that may be attributable to us could total approximately $10.1 million (plus interest, if applicable), after taking the appropriate set-offs for outstanding receivables owed by the CalPX and CAISO to Calpine. We believe we have appropriately reserved for the refund liability that by our current analysis would potentially be owed under the refund calculation clarification in the March 26 Order. The final determination of the refund liability and the allocation of payment obligations among the numerous buyers and sellers in the California markets is subject to further Commission proceedings to ascertain the allocation of payment obligations among the numerous buyers and sellers in the California markets. Furthermore, it is possible that there will be further proceedings to require refunds from certain sellers for periods prior to the originally designated Refund Period. In addition, the FERC orders concerning the Refund Period, the method for calculating refund liability and numerous other issues are pending on appeal before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. At this time, we are unable to predict the timing of the completion of these proceedings or the final refund liability. Thus, the impact on our business is uncertain. The energy payments made to us during a certain period under our QF contracts with PG&E may be retroactively adjusted downward as a result of a CPUC proceeding. Our qualifying facility, or QF, contracts with PG&E provide that the CPUC has the authority to determine the appropriate utility “avoided cost” to be used to set energy payments by determining the short run avoided cost (“SRAC”) energy price formula. In mid-2000 our QF facilities elected the option set forth in Section 390 of the California Public Utilities Code, which provided QFs the right to elect to receive energy payments based on the CalPX market clearing price instead of the SRAC price administratively determined by the CPUC. Having elected such option, our QF facilities were paid based upon the CalPX Price for various periods commencing in the summer of 2000 until January 19, 2001, when the CalPX ceased operating a day-ahead market. The CPUC has conducted proceedings (R.99-11-022) to determine whether the CalPX Price was the appropriate price for the energy component upon which to base payments to QFs which had elected the CalPX-based pricing option. In late 2000, the CPUC Commissioner assigned to the matter issued a proposed decision to the effect that the CalPX Price was the appropriate energy price to pay QFs who selected the pricing option then offered by Section 390, but the CPUC has yet to issue a final decision. Therefore, it is possible that the CPUC could order a payment adjustment based on a different energy price determination. On April 29, 2004, PG&E, the Utility Reform Network, a consumer advocacy group, and the Office of Ratepayer Advocates, an independent consumer advocacy department of the CPUC (collectively, the “PG&E Parties”), filed a Motion for Briefing 53 Table of Contents Schedule Regarding True-Up of Payments to QF Switchers (the “April 2004 Motion”). The April 2004 Motion requested that the CPUC set a briefing schedule in the R.99-11-022 docket to determine what is the appropriate price that should be paid to the QFs that had switched to the CalPX Price. The PG&E Parties allege that the appropriate price should be determined using the methodology that has been developed thus far in the California Refund Proceeding discussed above. Supplemental pleadings have been filed on the April 2004 Motion, but neither the CPUC nor the assigned administrative law judge has issued any rulings with respect to either the April 2004 Motion or the initial Emergency Motion. We believe that the CalPX Price was the appropriate price for energy payments for our QFs during this period, but there can be no assurance that this will be the outcome of the CPUC proceedings. On August 16, 2005, the Administrative Law Judge assigned to hear the April 2004 Motion issued a ruling setting October 11, 2005, as the date for filing prehearing conference statements and October 17, 2005, as the date of the prehearing conference. In our response, filed on October 11, 2005, we urged that the April 2004 Motion should be dismissed, but if dismissal were not granted, then discovery, testimony and hearings would be required. The assigned Administrative Law Judge has not yet issued a formal ruling following the October 17, 2005 prehearing conference. We believe that the PX Price was the appropriate price for energy payments and that the basis for any refund liability based on the interim determination by FERC in the California Refund Proceeding is unfounded, but there can be no assurance that this will be the outcome of the CPUC proceedings. The availability payments made to us under our Geysers’ Reliability Must Run contracts have been challenged by certain buyers as having been not just and reasonable. CAISO, EOB, Public Utilities Commission of the State of California, PG&E, SDG&E, and Southern California Edison Company (collectively referred to as the “Buyers Coalition”) filed a complaint on November 2, 2001 at FERC requesting the commencement of a FPA Section 206 proceeding to challenge one component of a number of separate settlements previously reached on the terms and conditions of RMR contracts with certain generation owners, including Geysers Power Company, LLC, which settlements were also previously approved by FERC. RMR contracts require the owner of the specific generation unit to provide energy and ancillary services when called upon to do so by the ISO to meet local transmission reliability needs or to manage transmission constraints. The Buyers Coalition has asked FERC to find that the availability payments under these RMR contracts are not just and reasonable. On June 3, 2005, FERC issued an order dismissing the Buyers Coalition’s complaint against all named generation owners, including GPC. On August 2, 2005, FERC issued an order denying requests for rehearing of its order. On September 23, 2005, the Buyers Coalition (with the exclusion of the CAISO) filed a Petition for Review with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, seeking review of FERC’s order dismissing the complaint. RMR payments made to the Delta Energy Center have been challenged by certain parties as not being just and reasonable. Through our subsidiary Delta Energy Center, LLC, we are party to a recurring, yearly RMR contract with the CAISO originally entered into in 2003. When the Delta RMR contract was first offered by us, several issues about the contract were disputed, including whether the CAISO accepted Delta’s bid for RMR service; whether the CAISO was bound by Delta’s bid price; and whether Delta’s bid price was just and reasonable. The Delta RMR contract was filed and accepted by FERC effective February 10, 2003, subject to refund. On May 30, 2003, the CAISO, PG&E and Delta entered into a settlement regarding the Delta RMR contract (the “Delta RMR Settlement”). Under the terms of the Delta RMR Settlement, the parties agreed to interim RMR rates which Delta would collect, subject to refund, from February 10, 2003, forward. The parties agreed to defer further proceedings on the Delta RMR contract until a similar RMR proceeding (the “Mirant RMR Proceeding”) was resolved by FERC. Under the terms of the Delta RMR Settlement, Delta continued to provide services to the CAISO pursuant to the interim RMR rates, terms and conditions. Since the Delta RMR Settlement, Delta and CAISO have entered into RMR contracts for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 pursuant to the terms of the Delta RMR Settlement. On June 3, 2005, FERC issued a final order in the Mirant RMR Proceeding, resolving that proceeding and triggering the reopening of the Delta RMR Settlement. On November 30, 2005, Delta filed revisions to the Delta RMR contract with FERC, proposing to change the method by which RMR rates are calculated for Delta effective January 1, 2006. On January 27, 2006, FERC issued an order accepting the new Delta RMR rates effective January 1, 2006 and consolidated the issues from the Delta RMR Settlement with the 2006 54 Table of Contents RMR case. FERC set the proceeding for hearing, but has suspended hearing procedures pending settlement discussions among the parties with respect to the rates for both the February 10, 2003, through December 31, 2005, period and the calendar year 2006 period. In addition, to resolve credit concerns raised by certain intervening parties, Delta has begun to direct into an escrow account the difference between the previously-filed rate and the 2006 rate pending the determination by FERC as to whether Delta is obligated to refund some portion of the rate collected in 2006. We are unable at this time to predict the result of any settlement process or the ultimate ruling by the FERC on the rates for Delta’s RMR services for the period between February 10, 2003 and December 31, 2005 or for calendar year 2006. Government Regulation We are subject to complex government regulation which could adversely affect our operations. Our activities are subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. The construction and operation of power generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from appropriate foreign, federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with environmental protection legislation and other regulations. While we believe that we have obtained the requisite approvals and permits for our existing operations and that our business is operated in accordance with applicable laws, we remain subject to a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects, and completed facilities may not comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction and operation of our facilities can be a costly and time-consuming process. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements, loss of required permits or regulatory status or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. Environmental regulations have had and will continue to have an impact on our cost of doing business and our investment decisions. We are subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels in connection with the development, ownership and operation of our energy generation facilities, and in connection with the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas. Federal laws and regulations govern, among other things, transactions by electric and gas companies, the ownership of these facilities, and access to and service on the electric and natural gas transmission grids. There have been a number of federal legislative and regulatory actions that have recently changed, and will continue to change, how the energy markets are regulated. For example, in March 2005 the EPA adopted a significant air quality regulation, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, that will affect our fossil fuel-fired generating facilities located in the eastern half of the U.S. The Clean Air Interstate Rule addresses the interstate transport of NOx and SO2 from fossil fuel power generation facilities. Individual states are responsible for developing a mechanism for assigning emissions rights to individual facilities. States’ allocation mechanisms, which will be complete in 2007, will ultimately determine the net impact to us. In addition, the potential for future regulation greenhouse gas emissions continues to be the subject of discussion. Our power generation facilities are significant sources of CO2 emissions, a greenhouse gas. Our compliance costs with any future federal greenhouse gas regulation could be material. Additional legislative and regulatory initiatives may occur. We cannot provide assurance that any legislation or regulation ultimately adopted would not adversely affect our existing projects. Complex electric regulations have a continuing impact on our business. Our operations are potentially subject to the provisions of various energy laws and regulations, including the FPA, PUHCA 2005, PURPA and state and local regulations. The FPA regulates wholesale sales of power, as well as electric transmission, in interstate commerce. See Government Regulation — Federal Power Act. PUHCA 2005, which repealed PUHCA 1935 as of February 8, 2006, subjects “holding companies,” as defined in PUHCA 2005, to certain FERC rights of access to the companies’ books and records that are determined by FERC to be relevant to the 55 Table of Contents companies’ respective FERC-jurisdictional rates See Government Regulation — Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. PURPA provides owners of QFs (as defined under PURPA (see Government Regulation — Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978)) exemptions from certain federal and state regulations, including rate and financial regulations. Each of these laws was created or amended by EPAct 2005, and FERC is still promulgating regulations to implement EPAct 2005’s provisions. We cannot predict what the final effects of these regulations will be on our business. Under the FPA and FERC’s regulations, the wholesale sale of power at market-based or cost-based rates requires that the seller have authorization issued by FERC to sell power at wholesale pursuant to a FERC-accepted rate schedule. All of our affiliates that own power plants (except for those power plants that are QFs under PURPA or are located in ERCOT), as well as our power marketing companies (collectively referred to herein as “Market Based Rate Companies”), are currently authorized by FERC to make wholesale sales of power at market based rates. This authorization could possibly be revoked for any of our Market Based Rate Companies if they fail in the future to continue to satisfy FERC’s applicable criteria or future criteria as possibly modified by FERC; if FERC eliminates or restricts the ability of wholesale sellers of power to make sales at market-based rates; or if FERC institutes a proceeding, based upon its own motion or a complaint brought by a third party, and establishes that any of our Market Based Rate Companies’ existing rates have become either unjust and unreasonable or contrary to the public interest (the applicable standard is determined by the circumstances). FERC could also revoke a seller’s market-based rate authority if the seller does not comply with FERC’s quarterly and triennial reporting requirements or notify FERC of any change in the seller’s status that would reflect a departure from the characteristics FERC relied upon in granting market-based rate authority to the seller. If the seller’s market-based rate authority is revoked, the seller could be liable for refunds of certain sales made at market-based rates. Our Market Based Rate Companies also must comply with FERC’s application, filing, and reporting requirements for persons holding or proposing to hold certain interlocking directorates. If the appropriate filings are not made, FERC can deny the person from holding the interlocking positions. Under PUHCA 2005, we and certain companies within our organizational structure are holding companies otherwise subject to the books and records access requirements. However, we and our subsidiary holding companies are exempt from the books and records access requirement because we are holding companies solely with respect to one or more QFs, EWGs and FUCOs. If one of our subsidiary project companies were to lose their QF, EWG or FUCO status, we would lose this exemption. Consequently, all holding companies within our corporate structure would be subject to the books and records access requirement of PUHCA 2005, in addition to stringent holding company record-keeping and reporting requirements mandated by FERC’s rules. If we lose the exemption, we could seek a waiver of the record-keeping and reporting requirements, but we cannot provide assurance that we would obtain such waiver. In order to avail ourselves of the benefits provided by PURPA, our project companies must own or, in some instances, operate a QF. For a cogeneration facility to qualify as a QF, FERC requires the QF to produce electricity as well as thermal energy in specified minimum proportions. The QF also must meet certain minimum energy efficiency standards. In addition, EPAct 2005 and FERC’s implementing regulations require new cogeneration QFs to demonstrate that their thermal output will be used in a “productive and beneficial manner” and that the facility’s electrical, thermal, chemical, and mechanical output will be used fundamentally for industrial, commercial, residential, or institutional purposes. Generally, any geothermal power facility which produces not more than 80 MW of electricity qualifies for QF status. FERC’s regulations implementing EPAct 2005 require QFs to obtain market-based rate authorization for wholesale sales that are made pursuant to a contract executed after March 17, 2006, and not under a state regulatory authority’s implementation of section 210 of PURPA. Certain factors necessary to maintain QF status are subject to the risk of events outside our control. For example, some of our facilities have temporarily been rendered incapable of meeting FERC’s QF criteria due to the loss of a thermal energy customer. Such loss of a steam host could occur, for example, if the steam host, typically an industrial facility, fails for operating, permit or economic reasons to use sufficient quantities of the QF’s steam output. In these cases, we have obtained from FERC limited waivers (for up to two years) of the 56 Table of Contents applicable QF requirements. We cannot provide assurance that such waivers will in every case be granted. During any such waiver period, we would seek to replace the thermal energy customer or find another use for the thermal energy which meets PURPA’s requirements, but no assurance can be given that these remedial actions would be available. We also cannot provide assurance that all of our steam hosts will continue to take and use sufficient quantities of their respective QF’s steam output. If any of our QFs lose their QF status, the owner of the QF would need to obtain FERC acceptance of a market-based or cost-based rate schedule to continue making wholesale power sales. To maintain our exemption from PUHCA 2005, the owner would also need to obtain EWG status. We cannot provide assurance that such FERC acceptance of a rate schedule or EWG status would be obtained. In addition, a loss of QF status could, depending on the facility’s particular power purchase agreement, allow the power purchaser to cease taking and paying for electricity or to seek refunds of past amounts paid and thus could cause the loss of some or all contract revenues or otherwise impair the value of a project. If a power purchaser were to cease taking and paying for electricity, there can be no assurance that the costs incurred in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers. FERC has proposed to eliminate prospectively electric utilities’ requirement under Section 210 of PURPA to purchase power from QFs at the utility’s “avoided cost,” to the extent FERC determines that such QFs have access to a competitive wholesale electricity market. FERC has also proposed procedures for utilities to file to obtain relief from mandatory purchase obligations on a service territory-wide basis, and provides procedures for affected QFs to file to reinstate the purchase obligation. Consistent with EPAct 2005, FERC proposes to leave intact existing rights under any contract or obligation in effect or pending approval involving QF purchases or sales. FERC has not taken any final action. We cannot predict what effect this proposal, and FERC’s final regulations, if any, implementing it, will have on our business. For those other regulations that FERC will promulgate in the future in connection with EPAct 2005, we cannot predict what effect these future regulations may have on our business. Furthermore, we cannot predict what future laws or regulations may be promulgated. We do not know whether any other new legislative or regulatory initiatives will be adopted or, if adopted, what form they may take. We cannot provide assurance that any legislation or regulation ultimately adopted would not adversely affect the operation of and generation of electricity by our business. State PUCs have historically had broad authority to regulate both the rates charged by, and the financial activities of, electric utilities operating in their states and to promulgate regulations for implementation of PURPA. Retail sales of electricity or thermal energy by an independent power producer may be subject to PUC regulation depending on state law. States may also assert jurisdiction over the siting and construction of electricity generating facilities including QFs and EWGs and, with the exception of QFs, over the issuance of securities and the sale or other transfer of assets by these facilities. We cannot predict what laws or rules will be enacted by states or PUCs or how these laws and rules would affect our business. Natural gas regulations have a continuing impact upon our business. The cost of natural gas is ordinarily the largest operational expense of a gas fired project and is critical to the project’s economics. The risks associated with using natural gas can include the need to arrange gathering, processing, extraction, blending and storage, as well as transportation of the gas from great distances, including obtaining removal, export and import authority if the gas is imported from a foreign country; the possibility of interruption of the gas supply or transportation (depending on the quality of the gas reserves purchased or dedicated to the project, the financial and operating strength of the gas supplier, whether firm or nonfirm transportation is purchased, and the operations of the gas pipeline); regulatory diversion; and obligations to take a minimum quantity of gas and pay for it (i.e., take and pay obligations). As the owner of more than 70 natural gas fired power plants, we rely on the natural gas pipeline grid for delivery of fuel. The use of pipelines for delivery of natural gas has proven to be an efficient and reliable method of meeting customers’ fuel needs. We believe that our risk of fuel supply disruption resulting from pipeline operation difficulties is limited, given the historical performance of pipeline operators and, in certain instances, multiple pipeline interconnections to the generation facilities. However, if a disruption were to 57 Table of Contents occur, the effect could be substantial, including outages at one of more of our plants until we were able to secure fuel supplies. As a purchaser and seller of natural gas in the wholesale market, as well as a transportation customer on interstate pipelines, we are subject to FERC regulation regarding the sale of natural gas and the transportation of natural gas. We cannot predict what new regulations FERC may enact in the future or how these regulations would affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 