Item 1A. Risk Factors Operations A prolonged economic downturn could result in a reduction in our revenue, operating cash flows or result in our customers, counterparties, vendors or other service providers failing to perform under their contracts with us. To the extent that the current economic downturn continues to affect the markets in which we operate, demand for power and power prices may remain depressed, our revenues and operating cash flows could be negatively impacted. In addition, challenges currently affecting the economy could cause our customers, counterparties, vendors and service providers to experience deteriorating credit and serious cash flow problems. As a result, these conditions could cause counterparties in the natural gas and power markets, particularly in the power derivative markets that we rely on for our hedging activities, to be unable to perform under existing contracts, or to withdraw from participation in those markets. If multiple parties withdraw from those markets, market liquidity may be threatened, which in turn could adversely impact our business. Additionally, these conditions may cause our counterparties to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our financial performance is impacted by price fluctuations in the wholesale power and natural gas markets and other market factors that are beyond our control. Market prices for power, generation capacity, ancillary services and natural gas are unpredictable and fluctuate substantially. Unlike most other commodities, power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, power prices are subject to significant volatility due to supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and spot markets. Long- and short-term power and natural gas prices may also fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of our control, including: • increases and decreases in generation capacity in our markets, including the addition of new supplies of power as a result of the development of new power plants, expansion of existing power plants or additional transmission capacity; 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • changes in power transmission or fuel transportation capacity constraints or inefficiencies; • power supply disruptions, including power plant outages and transmission disruptions; • Heat Rate risk; • weather conditions; • changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage, including the potential development of demand-side management tools and practices; • development of new fuels or new technologies for the production of power; • regulations and actions of the ISOs; and • federal and state power market and environmental regulation and legislation, including mandating a RPS or creating financial incentives, each resulting in new renewable energy generation capacity creating oversupply. These factors have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and will continue to cause them to do so in the future. Our ability to manage our counterparty credit risk could adversely affect us. Our customer and supplier counterparties may experience deteriorating credit. These conditions could cause counterparties in the natural gas and power markets, particularly in the power derivative markets that we rely on for our hedging activities, to withdraw from participation in those markets. If multiple parties withdraw from those markets, market liquidity may be threatened, which in turn could adversely impact our business. Additionally, these conditions may cause our counterparties to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the derivative exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accounting for our hedging activities may increase the volatility in our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in commodity-related marketing and price-risk management activities in order to economically hedge our exposure to market risk with respect to power sales from our power plants, fuel utilized by those assets and emission allowances. We generally attempt to balance our fixed-price physical and financial purchases, and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. These derivatives are accounted for in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value unless they qualify for the normal purchase normal sale exemption. Changes in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices are immediately recognized in earnings, unless the derivative qualifies for, and is designated as, cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Sudden commodity price movements could create financial losses. Whether a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment depends upon it meeting specific criteria used to determine if the cash flow hedge is and will remain effective for the term of the derivative. Economic hedges will not necessarily qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment, or for economic hedges that currently qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment; we may lose cash flow hedge accounting treatment in the future if the forecasted transactions are no longer considered probable of occurring. As a result, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on our quarterly and annual financial results. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The use of hedging agreements may not work as planned or fully protect us and could result in financial losses. We typically enter into hedging agreements, including contracts to purchase or sell commodities at future dates and at fixed prices, in order to manage our commodity price risks. These activities, although intended to mitigate price volatility, expose us to other risks. When we sell power forward, we may be required to post significant amounts of cash collateral or other credit support to our counterparties and we give up the opportunity to sell power at higher prices if spot prices are higher in the future. Further, if the values of the financial contracts change in a manner that we do not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not typically hedge the entire exposure of our operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be diminished based upon adverse movement in commodity prices. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors (see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for our 2009 and 2008 quarterly operating results), including: • seasonal variations in power and natural gas prices and capacity payments; • seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular unseasonable weather conditions; • production levels of hydroelectric power in the West; • variations in levels of production, including from both planned and unplanned outages; • availability of emissions credits; • natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts, earthquakes, hurricanes and other catastrophic events; and • the completion of development and construction projects. In particular, a disproportionate amount of our total revenue has historically been realized during the third fiscal quarter and we expect this trend to continue in the future as demand for power in our markets peaks in our third fiscal quarter. If our total revenue were below seasonal expectations during that quarter, by reason of power plant operational performance issues, cool summers, or other factors, it could have a disproportionate effect on our annual operating results. We rely on power transmission and natural gas distribution facilities owned and operated by other companies. We depend on facilities and assets that we do not own or control for the transmission to our customers of the power produced by our power plants and the distribution of natural gas fuel to our power plants. If these transmission and distribution systems are disrupted or capacity on those systems is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power products or obtain fuel may be hindered. ISOs that oversee transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in their power markets. Existing congestion, as well as expansion of transmission systems, could affect our performance. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas in the future at prices acceptable to us. We obtain substantially all of our physical natural gas supply from third parties pursuant to arrangements that vary in term, pricing structure, firmness and delivery flexibility. Our physical natural gas supply arrangements must be coordinated with transportation agreements, balancing agreements, storage services, financial hedging transactions and other contracts so that the natural gas is delivered to our power plants at the times, in the quantities and otherwise in a manner that meets the needs of our generation portfolio and our customers. We must also comply with laws and regulations governing natural gas transportation. While adequate supplies of natural gas are currently available to us at prices we believe are reasonable for each of our power plants, we are exposed to increases in the price of natural gas and it is possible that sufficient supplies to operate our portfolio profitably may not continue to be available to us. In addition, we face risks with regard to the delivery to and the use of natural gas by our power plants including the following: • transportation may be unavailable if pipeline infrastructure is damaged or disabled; • pipeline tariff changes may adversely affect our ability to, or cost to, deliver natural gas supply; • third-party suppliers may default on natural gas supply obligations and we may be unable to replace supplies currently under contract; • market liquidity for physical natural gas or availability of natural gas services (e.g. storage) may be insufficient or available only at prices that are not acceptable to us; • natural gas quality variation may adversely affect our power plant operations; and • our natural gas operations capability may be compromised due to various events such as natural disaster, loss of key personnel or loss of critical infrastructure. Our revenues and results of operations depend on market rules, regulation and other forces beyond our control. Our revenues and results of operations are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: • rate caps, price limitations and bidding rules imposed by ISOs, Regional Transmission Organizations and other market regulators that may impair our ability to recover our costs and limit our return on our capital investments; and • some of our competitors’ (mainly utilities) entitlement-guaranteed rates of return on their capital investments, which returns may in some instances exceed market returns, may impact our ability to sell our power at economical rates. Our power generating operations performance involves significant risks and hazards and may be below expected levels of output or efficiency. The operation of power plants involves risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and risks related to the creditworthiness of our contract counterparties and the creditworthiness of our counterparties’ customers or other parties, such as steam hosts, with whom our counterparties have contracted. From time to time our power plants have experienced unplanned outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to equipment breakdowns, failures or other problems and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically can result in lost revenues, increase our maintenance expenses and may reduce our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, an unplanned outage may prevent the affected power plant from performing under any applicable PPAs, commodity contracts or other contractual arrangements. Such failure may allow a counterparty to terminate an agreement and/or seek liquidated damages. Although insurance is maintained to partially protect against operating risks, the proceeds of insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, we could be unable to service principal and interest payments under, or may otherwise breach, our financing obligations, particularly with respect to the affected power plant, which could result in losing our interest in the affected power plant or, possibly, one or more other power plants. Our power generating operations are inherently hazardous and may lead to catastrophic events, including loss of life, personal injury and destruction of property, and subject us to litigation. Natural gas is highly explosive and power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and delivering fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering power to transmission and distribution systems. These and other hazards can cause severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment and suspension of operations. In the worst circumstances, catastrophic events can cause significant personal injury or loss of life. Further, the occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate; however, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we are subject. A successful claim against us that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our power plants and development projects are subject to impairments. If we were to experience a significant reduction in our expected revenues and operating cash flows for an extended period of time from a prolonged economic downturn or from advances or changes in technologies, we could experience future impairments of our power plant assets as a result. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our power project development and construction activities involve risk and may not be successful. The development and construction of power plants is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power plant, we must generally obtain: • necessary power generation equipment; • governmental permits and approvals including environmental permits and approvals; • fuel supply and transportation agreements; • sufficient equity capital and debt financing; • power transmission agreements; • water supply and wastewater discharge agreements or permits; and • site agreements and construction contracts. To the extent that our development and construction activities continue or expand, we may be unsuccessful on a timely and profitable basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks of these activities by securing a favorable PPA and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements construction, the development of a power project may require us to expend significant cash sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. The process for obtaining governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects, and completed power plants may not comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction and operation of our power plants can be a costly and time-consuming process. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements, loss of required permits or regulatory status or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project resulting in potential impairments. Our geothermal power reserves may be inadequate for our operations. In connection with each geothermal power plant, we estimate the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient reserves being available for sustained generation of the power capacity desired. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the development and operation of our geothermal reservoirs or accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of our steam reserves. An incorrect estimate or inability to manage our geothermal reserves, or a decline in productivity could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the development and operation of geothermal power resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The successful exploitation of a geothermal power resource ultimately depends upon many factors including the following: • the heat content of the extractable steam or fluids; • the geology of the reservoir; • the total amount of recoverable reserves; • operating expenses relating to the extraction of steam or fluids; • price levels relating to the extraction of steam, fluids or power generated; and • capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. Claims that some geothermal power plants cause increased risk of seismic activity could impact our operating procedures and increase our operating costs or, delay or increase the cost of further development at The Geysers. In 2009, as part of a joint private and federally-funded geothermal technology research project, a company unrelated to us commenced deepening an existing geothermal well on a property neighboring our Geysers Assets. The company was reportedly attempting to drill into the hot, low or non-permeable base rock that underlies the existing geothermal steam reservoir at The Geysers to engineer or create a “multilayered heat extraction system” below the reservoir by injecting water under very high pressure, fracturing the rock. This process has spawned public and political concern regarding increased seismicity risk. As a consequence, in July 2009, the Department of Energy temporarily halted funding of its portion of that research project pending further seismicity studies. Although our geothermal operations do not include attempts to engineer or create new reservoirs from hot, low or non-permeable rock, the concerns regarding induced seismicity from geothermal operations could delay or otherwise adversely impact our Department of Energy grant applications. Also, we have become aware of a letter and petition to the Board of Supervisors County of Lake from a local community homeowners association located near our Geysers Assets entitled a “Complaint and Petition” and signed by “109 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements residents and property owners.” The letter asks for county intervention to abate alleged public nuisance arising from induced seismicity by governmental legal action, including litigation, regulation and ordinances to prevent induced seismicity; however, the letter also states it is not their intent to suspend our geothermal operations. It is possible that government entities or agencies will seek to more stringently regulate the exploration, development and operation of geothermal power plants, including operations of our Geysers Assets, in order to mitigate induced seismicity resulting from geothermal operations, or that operators of geothermal power plants could be subject to property damage claims resulting from increased seismic activity. Any of these events could increase the cost of operating the existing Geysers Assets and may delay or increase further exploration and any further development of our Geysers Assets. Competition could adversely affect our performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies, marketing and trading companies, and other independent power producers. In addition, many states are implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power industry. This competition has put pressure on power utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased power, and increasing competition in the supply of power in the future could increase this pressure. In addition, construction during the last decade has created excess power supply and higher reserve margins, which has led to tight liquidity in the power trading markets, putting downward pressure on prices. Significant events beyond our control, such as natural disasters or acts of terrorism, could damage our power plants or our corporate offices and may impact us in unpredictable ways. Certain of our geothermal and natural gas-fired power plants, particularly in the West, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. More significant seismic disturbances are possible. In addition, other areas in which we operate, particularly in Texas and the Southeast, experience tornados and hurricanes. Similarly, operations at our corporate offices in Houston, Texas could be substantially affected by a hurricane. Such events could damage or shut down our power plants, power transmission or the fuel supply facilities upon which our generation business is dependent. Our existing power plants are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic and other disturbances, and we believe we maintain adequate insurance protection. However, earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance may be inadequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious damages or disturbances to our power plants or our operations due to natural disasters. In addition to physical damage to our power plants, the risk of future terrorist activity could result in adverse changes in the insurance markets and disruptions in the power and fuel markets. These events could also adversely affect the U.S. economy, create instability in the financial markets and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital on terms and conditions acceptable to us. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth if we were unable to replace them. In addition, approximately 46 employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. In certain situations, our PPAs and other contractual arrangements, including construction agreements, commodity contracts, maintenance agreements and other arrangements, may be terminated by the counterparty and/or may allow the counterparty to seek liquidated damages. The situations that could allow a counterparty to terminate the contract and/or seek liquidated damages include: • the cessation or abandonment of the development, construction, maintenance or operation of a power plant; 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • failure of a power plant to achieve construction milestones or commercial operation by agreed-upon deadlines; • failure of a power plant to achieve certain output or efficiency minimums; • our failure to make any of the payments owed to the counterparty or to establish, maintain, restore, extend the term of, or increase any required collateral; • failure of a power plant to obtain material permits and regulatory approvals by agreed-upon deadlines; • a material breach of a representation or warranty or our failure to observe, comply with or perform any other material obligation under the contract; or • events of liquidation, dissolution, insolvency or bankruptcy. Revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or termination of our PPAs. Some of the power we generate from our existing portfolio is sold under long-term PPAs that expire at various times. We also sell power under short- to intermediate-term (one day to five years) PPAs. Our uncontracted capacity is generally sold on the spot market at current market prices as merchant energy. When the terms of each of our various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for the generation of power under subsequent arrangements or on the spot market may be significantly less than the price that had been paid to us under the PPA. Power plants without long-term PPAs involve risk and uncertainty in forecasting future demand load for merchant sales because they are exposed to market fluctuations for some or all of their generating capacity and output. A significant under- or over-estimation of load requirements may increase our operating costs. Without the benefit of long-term PPAs, we may not be able to sell any or all of the power generated by these power plants at commercially attractive rates and these power plants may not be able to operate profitably. Certain of our PPAs have values in excess of current market prices (measured over the next five years). The aggregate notional value of these PPAs is approximately $3.2 billion at December 31, 2009. Values for our long-term commodity contracts are calculated using discounted cash flows derived as the difference between contractually based cash flows and the cash flows to buy or sell similar amounts of the commodity on market terms. Inherent in these valuations are significant assumptions regarding future prices, correlations and volatilities, as applicable. The aggregate value of such contracts could decrease in response to changes in the market. We are at risk of loss in margins to the extent that these contracts expire or are terminated and we are unable to replace them on comparable terms. Additionally, our PPAs contain termination provisions standard to contracts in our industry such as negligence, performance default or prolonged events of force majeure. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in our Chapter 11 cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. On December 20, 2005 (the Petition Date), Calpine Corporation and 274 of its wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries filed for voluntary petitions of relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. From the Petition Date through our emergence from Chapter 11 on the Effective Date (January 31, 2008), we operated as a debtor-in-possession under the protection of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. In general, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation of our Plan of Reorganization were discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of our Plan of Reorganization; however, there are certain exceptions. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations, that arose prior to the Petition Date, were not discharged primarily relate to certain actions by governmental units under police power authority or where we have agreed to preserve a claimant’s claims or a claimant has received court approval to proceed with their claim such as the settlement of the CalGen Third Lien Debt claims. The ultimate resolution of such claims and other obligations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications, and database services in connection with the operation of our power plants. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. Any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure, or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. Capital Resources; Liquidity We have substantial liquidity needs and could face liquidity pressure. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated debt outstanding was $9.5 billion, of which approximately $4.7 billion was outstanding under our First Lien Credit Facility and $1.2 billion was outstanding under our First Lien Notes. In addition we had $412 million issued in letters of credit and our pro rata share of unconsolidated subsidiary debt was approximately $624 million. Although we have reduced our debt as a result of our reorganization, we could face liquidity challenges as we continue to have substantial debt and substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to meet margin requirements and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from our operations and our ability to access the capital markets. This, to a certain extent, is dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as discussed further in “— Operations” above. Our borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities remains limited. Although we are permitted to enter into new project financing credit facilities to fund our development and construction activities and we are allowed to offer first lien notes in exchange for term loans under our First Lien Credit Facility under certain circumstances, there can be no assurance that we will not face liquidity pressure in the future. See additional discussion regarding our capital resources and liquidity in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial indebtedness could adversely impact our financial health and limit our operations. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, potential growth or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flows in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in governmental regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness or to repurchase equity issued by certain of our subsidiaries to third parties; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging and optimization activities by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can transact as well as the volume of those transactions. The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties including those under our First Lien Credit Facility and other credit and financing arrangements as we routinely execute transactions in 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements connection with our hedging and optimization activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise defaults under a financing agreement. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or access the credit and capital markets in the future at prices that are beneficial to us or at all. If our available cash, including future cash flows generated from operations, is not sufficient in the near term to finance our operations, post collateral or satisfy or refinance our obligations as they become due, we may need to access the capital and credit markets. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions. Market disruptions such as those experienced in the U.S. and abroad in 2008 and 2009, may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access capital. In addition, we believe these conditions have and may continue to have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock, which in turn may also reduce our ability to access capital or credit markets. These disruptions may continue throughout 2010 or longer. Other factors include: • low credit ratings may prevent us from obtaining any material amount of additional debt financing; • our restrictions against additional borrowing in our First Lien Credit Facility may limit additional indebtedness other than through refinancing outstanding debt, or through project financings where we are able to pledge the project assets as security; • conditions in power markets; • regulatory developments; • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; • investor confidence in the industry and in us; • the continued reliable operation of our current power plants; and • provisions of tax, regulatory and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. While we have utilized non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, market conditions and other factors may prevent us from completing similar financings in the future. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain the financing required to develop, construct, acquire or expand power plants on terms satisfactory to us. We have financed our existing power plants using a variety of leveraged financing structures, including senior secured and unsecured indebtedness, construction financing, project financing, term loans and lease obligations. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which we do not cure, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the power plant and any related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, we may not be able to retain any interest in the power plant or other collateral supporting such financing. In addition, any such default or foreclosure may trigger cross default provisions in our other financing agreements. Our First Lien Credit Facility, First Lien Notes and our other debt instruments impose significant restrictions on us and any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. The restrictions under our First Lien Credit Facility and First Lien Notes could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs and, if we were unable to comply with these restrictions, could result in an event of default under our First Lien Credit Facility. These 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements restrictions require us to meet certain financial performance tests on a quarterly basis and limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and issue certain stock; • make prepayments on or purchase certain indebtedness in whole or in part; • pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our stock, or repurchase our stock or make other restricted payments; • use money borrowed under our First Lien Credit Facility for non-guarantors (including foreign subsidiaries); • make certain investments; • create or incur liens; • consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • pay dividends or make other distributions from certain subsidiaries up to Calpine Corporation; • make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; • engage in certain business activities; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • acquire power plants or other businesses. Our First Lien Credit Facility, First Lien Notes and our other debt instruments contain events of default customary for financings of their type, including a cross default to debt other than non-recourse project financing debt, a cross-acceleration to non-recourse project financing debt and certain change of control events. If we fail to comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or a default exists and is continuing under such debt, the lenders could give notice and declare outstanding borrowings and other obligations under such debt immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, or if obtainable, it could be on terms that are not acceptable to us. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our First Lien Credit Facility, First Lien Notes and our other debt instruments, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if it becomes necessary to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, it could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which could impact our financial health if interest rates were to rise significantly. A significant portion of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest, which we pay on a current basis. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our floating rate debt, particularly on our First Lien Credit 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Facility, it could result in defaults under our First Lien Credit Facility and other debt instruments. We manage our interest rate risk through the use of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps. See also Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management and Commodity Accounting — Interest Rate Risk.” Our credit status is below investment grade, which may restrict our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and restrict financing opportunities. Our corporate and debt credit ratings are below investment grade. There is no assurance that our credit ratings will improve in the future, which may restrict the financing opportunities available to us or may increase the cost of any available financing. Our current credit rating has resulted in the requirement that we provide additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations, and has had certain adverse impacts on our subsidiaries’ and our financial position and results of operations. Certain of our obligations are required to be secured by letters of credit or cash, which increase our costs; if we are unable to provide such security it may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Companies using derivatives, which include many commodity contracts, are subject to the inherent risks of such transactions. Consequently, many companies, including us, may be required to post cash collateral for certain commodity transactions; and, the level of collateral will increase as a company increases its hedging activities. We use margin deposits, prepayments and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities. Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices, and also based on our credit ratings and general perception of creditworthiness in this market. Certain of our financing arrangements for our power plants have required us to post letters of credit which are at risk of being drawn down in the event we, or the applicable subsidiary, default on our obligations. These letter of credit and cash collateral requirements increase our cost of doing business and could have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity, particularly if there was a call for a large amount of additional cash or letter of credit collateral due to an unexpectedly large movement in the market price of a commodity. As of December 31, 2009, we had $412 million issued in letters of credit under our First Lien Credit Facility and other facilities, with $794 million remaining available for borrowing or for letter of credit support under our First Lien Credit Facility. In addition, we have ratably secured our obligations under certain of our power and natural gas agreements that qualify as eligible commodity hedge agreements under our First Lien Credit Facility with the assets currently subject to liens under our First Lien Credit Facility. We may not have sufficient liquidity to hedge market risks effectively. We are exposed to market risks through our sale of power, capacity and related products and the purchase and sale of fuel, transmission services and emission allowances. These market risks include, among other risks, volatility arising from location and timing differences that may be associated with buying and transporting fuel, converting fuel into power and delivering the power to a buyer. We undertake these activities through agreements with various counterparties, many of which require us to provide guarantees, offset or netting arrangements, letters of credit, a second lien on assets and/or cash collateral to protect the counterparties against the risk of our default or insolvency. The amount of such credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market prices can result in our being required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. The effectiveness of our strategy may be dependent on the amount of collateral available to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity requirements may be greater than we anticipate or will be able to meet. Without a sufficient amount of working capital to post as collateral in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin, we may not be able to 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements manage price volatility effectively or to implement our strategy. An increase in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required to be provided to our counterparties may negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, if any of our power plants experience unplanned outages, we may be required to procure replacement power at spot market prices in order to fulfill contractual commitments. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, we may be exposed to significant losses, may miss significant opportunities and may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets. Our ability to receive future cash flows generated from the operation of our subsidiaries may be limited. Almost all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and other affiliates. As a result, we depend almost entirely upon their earnings and cash flows to service our indebtedness, post collateral and finance our ongoing operations. Certain of our project debt and other agreements restrict our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Some of these limitations are subject to a number of significant exceptions (including exceptions permitting such restrictions in connection with certain subsidiary financings). Accordingly, the financing agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions, or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the payment of their other obligations, including their outstanding debt, operating expenses, lease payments and reserves, or during the existence of a default. We may utilize project financing, preferred equity and other types of subsidiary financing transactions when appropriate in the future, which could increase our debt and may be structurally senior to other debt such as our First Lien Credit Facility and our First Lien Notes. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness are limited in some cases by existing indentures, debt instruments or other agreements. Our subsidiaries may incur additional construction/project financing indebtedness, issue preferred equity to finance the acquisition and development of new power plants and engage in certain types of non-recourse financings to the extent permitted by existing agreements, and may continue to do so in order to fund our ongoing operations. Any such newly incurred subsidiary preferred equity would be added to our current consolidated debt levels and would likely be structurally senior to our debt, which could also intensify the risks associated with our already substantial leverage. Our First Lien Credit Facility, First Lien Notes and other parent-company debt is effectively subordinated to certain project indebtedness. Certain of our subsidiaries and other affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and, except in limited circumstances, have no obligation to pay any amounts due with respect to our indebtedness or indebtedness of other subsidiaries or affiliates, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on or principal of such indebtedness. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization (or the bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary or affiliate), such subsidiaries’ or other affiliates’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiaries or affiliates, will generally be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries or affiliates before any assets are made available for distribution to us or the holders of our indebtedness. As a result, holders of our indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all present and future debts and other liabilities (including trade payables) of certain of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, our subsidiaries had approximately $1.6 billion of secured project financing and approximately $1.0 billion in debt from our CCFC subsidiary, which are effectively senior to our First Lien Credit Facility, First Lien Notes and other parent-company debt. We may incur additional project financing indebtedness in the future, which will be effectively senior to our other secured and unsecured debt. 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Governmental Regulation Existing and future anticipated GHG/Carbon legislation could adversely affect our operations. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and this trend is likely to continue. In particular, there is growing likelihood that carbon tax or limits on carbon, CO2 and other GHG emissions will be implemented at the federal or expanded at the state or regional levels. In 2009, ten states in the northeast began the compliance period of a cap-and-trade program, RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from power plants. California is in the process of creating implementation plans for Assembly Bill 32 which places a statewide cap on GHG emissions and requires the state to return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. In 2008, there were several bills introduced in the U.S. Congress concerning climate change. On June 26, 2009, the House of Representatives passed The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, a climate change and clean energy bill, which, among other provisions, would establish an economy-wide carbon cap-and-trade program and set carbon emission reduction targets in several sectors of the economy, including the power sector. For the power sector, 2012 is set as the initial year for compliance. On October 23, 2009, draft climate change legislation entitled the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, was released in the Senate. The legislation is similar to The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 in that it also includes, among other provisions, an economy-wide carbon cap-and-trade program. If either bill were to become law, we would have the obligation to obtain emissions allowances for the operation of our fossil-fuel power plants. While we expect the costs to acquire allowances to be a factor that will impact market price, there can be no assurance that market price will fully reflect these costs which could adversely affect our Commodity Margin. With respect to our existing long-term steam and power contracts under which we would not be able to recover costs to acquire allowances from our customers, the bill allocates a pool of free allowances to generators with qualifying contracts to mitigate such costs. However, there can be no assurance there will be a sufficient number of free allowances in the pool to fully cover emissions related to generation under such contracts which could adversely impact our Commodity Margin. Although we cannot predict the effect and ultimate content of final climate change legislation and regulations, if any, on our business, we continue to expect climate change legislation efforts to proceed at the federal level, and that proposed legislation will take the form of a cap-and-trade program, although it is possible that legislation may take other forms, such as a carbon tax on each unit of CO2 or GHG emitted in excess of mandated limits. As a result of requirements for GHG emissions reduction, we could be required under any climate change legislation or related regulations ultimately enacted to purchase allowances or offsets to emit GHGs or other regulated pollutants or to pay taxes on such emissions. These requirements, as well as the possibility that market or contract prices will not fully reflect costs of compliance, or that we may not be able to obtain free allowances or recoup our costs to obtain allowances or to reduce emissions, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Existing and proposed federal and state RPS and energy efficiency, as well as economic support for renewable sources of power under the U.S economic stimulus legislation could adversely impact our operations. Federal policymakers have been considering imposing a national RPS on retail power providers. California already has an RPS in effect and is currently considering new and higher RPS. A number of additional states, including Maine, Minnesota, New York, Texas and Wisconsin, have an array of different RPS in place. Existing state-specific RPS requirements may change due to regulatory and/or legislative initiatives, and other states may consider implementing enforceable RPS in the future. A national RPS or more robust RPS in states in which we are active, coupled with economic incentives provided under the federal stimulus package, would 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements likely initially drive up the number of wind and solar resources, increasing power supply to various markets which could negatively impact the dispatch of our natural gas assets, primarily in Texas and California. Similarly, federal legislators are considering national energy efficiency initiatives. Several states already have energy efficiency initiatives in place while others are considering imposing them. Improved energy efficiency when mandated by law or promoted by government sponsored incentives can decrease demand for power which could negatively impact the dispatch of our gas assets, primarily in Texas and California. Proposed financial reform relating to derivative transactions, as well as certain financial institutions, could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The CFTC has regulatory oversight of the futures markets, including trading on NYMEX for energy, and licensed futures professionals such as brokers, clearing members and large traders. In connection with its oversight of the futures markets and NYMEX, the CFTC regularly investigates market irregularities and potential manipulation of those markets. Recent laws also give the CFTC certain powers with respect to broker-type markets referred to as “exempt commercial markets” or ECMs, including the Intercontinental Exchange. The CFTC monitors activities in the OTC, ECM, and physical markets that may be undertaken for the purpose of influencing futures prices. With respect to ECMs, the CFTC exercises only light-handed regulation primarily related to price reporting and record retention. Thus, transactions executed on an ECM generally are not regulated directly by the CFTC. However, ECM transactions have come under the CFTC’s scrutiny during investigations of fraud and manipulation in which the CFTC has broadly applied its statutory authority to punish persons who are alleged to have manipulated, or attempted to manipulate, the price of any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery. On December 11, 2009, the House of Representatives passed the Wall Street Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. The legislation includes provisions to regulate certain types of OTC derivatives that we use. Included in the bill is a provision which clarifies the definition of a “major swap participant” that would otherwise have left it to future CFTC interpretation and definition which could have put more end users, such as us, under mandatory clearing, position limits and margin despite an end user exemption in the underlying bill. The Senate Banking Committee is attempting to work in a bipartisan manner to craft comprehensive financial reform legislation. The committee has organized bipartisan working groups to address various aspects of reform. The Senate Agriculture Committee also continues to work on drafting bipartisan legislation. In January 2010, the Obama Administration requested Congress to place new restrictions on financial institutions as part of comprehensive financial reform legislation. Specifically, the Obama Administration is requesting that “no bank or financial institution that contains a bank will own, invest in or sponsor a hedge fund or a private equity fund, or proprietary trading operations unrelated to serving customers for its own profit.” If enacted into law, banks would be banned from owning trading operations that trade in physical and financial derivative energy products. As several major financial institutions own such trading operations and provide significant liquidity to the energy markets in which we participate, if this or similar legislation is enacted the pricing and availability of derivative transactions related to our hedging activity could be adversely impacted. Changes in the regulation of the power markets in which we operate could negatively impact us. We have a significant presence in the major competitive power markets for California and Texas. While these markets are largely de-regulated, these markets continue to evolve. In 2009, implementation of CAISO’s Market Redesign and Technology Upgrade in California had a neutral to slightly positive impact on our operations. Existing regulations within the markets in which we operate may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws or regulations may be issued. We cannot predict the future development of regulation or legislation nor the ultimate effect such changes in these markets could have on our business; however, we could be negatively impacted. 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to other complex governmental regulation which could adversely affect our operations. Generally, in the U.S., we are subject to regulation by FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and the sale and transportation of natural gas, as well as by state agencies regarding physical aspects of the power plants. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under the market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generation business. FERC could also impose fines or other restrictions or requirements on us under certain circumstances. The construction and operation of power plants require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the appropriate foreign, federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with numerous environmental laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities. Should we fail to comply with any environmental requirements that apply to power plant construction or operations, we could be subject to administrative, civil and/or criminal liability and fines, and regulatory agencies could take other actions to curtail our operations. Furthermore, certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our power plants, including any soil or groundwater contamination that may be present, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether the liabilities are known or unknown, or arose from the activities of predecessors or third parties. If we were deemed to have market power in certain markets as a result of the ownership of our stock by certain significant shareholders, we could lose FERC authorization to sell power at wholesale at market-based rates in such markets or be required to engage in mitigation in those markets. Certain of our significant shareholder groups own power generating assets, or own significant equity interests in entities with power generating assets, in markets where we currently own power plants. FERC has ruled that we do not have market power as a consequence of their ownership of our common stock. However, we could be determined to have market power if these existing significant shareholders acquire additional significant ownership or equity interest in other entities with power generating assets in the same markets where we generate and sell power. If FERC makes the determination that we have market power, FERC could, among other things, revoke market-based rate authority for the affected market-based companies or order them to mitigate that market power. If market-based rate authority were revoked for any of our market-based rate companies, those companies would be required to make wholesale sales of power based on cost-of-service rates, which could negatively impact their revenues. If we are required to mitigate market power, we could be required to sell certain power plants in regions where we are determined to have market power. A loss of our market-based rate authority or required sales of power plants, particularly if it affected several of our power plants or was in a significant market such as California, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our principal shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence over corporate transactions and other matters. Four holders (or related groups of holders) of our common stock have made filings with the SEC reporting beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, individually or as members of a group, of 5% or more of the shares of our common stock. These shareholders, who together beneficially owned approximately 53% of our common stock at December 31, 2009, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions. If two or more of these shareholders (or groups of shareholders) vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give significant influence over the election of our entire Board of Directors and significant influence over our management, operations and affairs. Currently, two members of our Board of Directors, including the Chairman of our Board, are affiliated, directly or indirectly, with SPO Advisory Corp., one of these shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control over us unless it is supported by these shareholders. Accordingly, your ability to influence us through voting your shares may be limited or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Additionally, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 registering the resale of the common stock held by certain members of two of the four groups of these shareholders, which permits them to sell a large portion of their shares of common stock without being subject to the “trickle out” or other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. During 2009, one of these shareholders, who had reported holdings of greater than 10% of our securities as of January 1, 2009, elected to sell approximately 67 million shares in a series of offerings and market transactions during 2009, bringing its shareholdings below 10% of our common stock. These sales, and additional sales by the other three shareholders of all or a substantial portion of their shares within a short period of time, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or could further concentrate holdings of our common stock in the remaining three shareholders who hold more than 5% of our common stock. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax NOL carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, our NOL carryforwards can be utilized to reduce future taxable income subject to certain limitations, including if we were to undergo an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the IRC. We experienced an ownership change on the Effective Date as a result of the cancellation of our old common stock and the distribution of our new common stock pursuant to our Plan of Reorganization. However, this ownership change and resulting annual limitations are not expected to result in the expiration of our NOL carryforwards if we are able to generate sufficient future taxable income within the carryforward periods. If a subsequent ownership change were to occur as a result of future transactions in our stock, accompanied by a significant reduction in our market value immediately prior to the ownership change, our ability to utilize the NOL carryforwards may be significantly limited. To manage the risk of significant limitations on our ability to utilize our tax NOL carryforwards, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to meet to determine whether to impose certain transfer restrictions on our common stock in the following circumstances: if, prior to February 1, 2013, our Market Capitalization declines by at least 35% from our Emergence Date Market Capitalization of approximately $8.6 billion (in each case, as defined in and calculated pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation) and at least 25 percentage points of shift in ownership has occurred with respect to our equity for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC. We believe, as of the filing of this Report, we have experienced declines in our stock price of more than 35% from our Emergence Date Market Capitalization. While we don’t believe an ownership change of 25 percentage points has occurred, the change in ownership is only slighty less than 25%. Accordingly, the transfer restrictions have not been put in place by our Board of Directors; however, if both of the foregoing events were to occur together and our Board of Directors were to elect to impose them, they could become operative in the future. There can be no assurance that the circumstances will not be met in the future, or in the event that they are met, that our Board of Directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that, if imposed, such restrictions would prevent an ownership change from occurring. 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 