ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have exposure to the risks associated with instability in the global economy and financial markets, which may negatively impact our revenues, liquidity, suppliers and customers. As a result of the adverse economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia, we experienced decreased demand for our products during 2009, which in turn had a negative effect on our revenues and net income. The economic recovery in certain markets during 2010 resulted in improved revenues and net income in 2010 and 2011. However, continued future growth will, in part, be contingent on the strength and duration of the recovery. Additionally, diminished credit availability may prohibit our customers and suppliers from obtaining financing for their operations, which could result in (i) disruption to our supply deliveries or our inability to obtain raw materials at favorable pricing, (ii) a decrease in orders of our products or the cancellations thereof, and (iii) our customers’ inability to pay for our products. Furthermore, the volatility in security prices may adversely affect the value of the assets in our pension plans, which may, in turn, result in increased future funding requirements and pension cost. We are unable to predict the strength and duration of the current economic recovery in the United States, Europe and Asia. A return to the more adverse economic conditions experienced in 2009 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate the other risk factors described below. We operate in cyclical markets, which may make our revenues and operating results fluctuate. Demand for certain of our petroleum products is primarily tied to the number of working and available drilling rigs and oil and natural gas prices. The energy market, in particular, is cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas fluctuates. When worldwide demand for these commodities is depressed, the demand for our products used in drilling and recovery applications is reduced. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period as the markets for our products have historically experienced cyclical downturns in demand. We face robust competition in the markets we serve, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We actively compete with many companies producing the same or similar products. Depending on the particular product and application, we experience competition based on a number of factors, including price, quality, performance and availability. We compete against many companies, including divisions of larger companies with greater financial resources than we possess. As a result, these competitors may be both domestically and internationally better able to withstand a change in conditions within the markets in which we compete and throughout the global economy as a whole. In addition, our ability to compete effectively depends on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including new competitors entering our markets, new products and services that may be introduced by competitors, changes in customer preferences, and pricing pressures. If we are unable to anticipate 13 Table of Contents our competitors’ development of new products and services, identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis or successfully introduce new products and services in response to such competitive factors, we could lose customers to competitors. If we cannot compete successfully, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to develop new products and technologies, our competitive position may be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our sales and market share. The markets we operate in are characterized by changing technologies and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and technologies or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future revenues and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Large or rapid increases in the costs of raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability and our dependence on particular suppliers of raw materials could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our primary raw materials, directly and indirectly, are cast iron, aluminum and steel. We also purchase a large number of motors and, therefore, also have exposure to changes in the price of copper, which is a primary component of motors. The Company has long-term contracts with only a few suppliers of key components. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in prices of such raw materials. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels of brokers and dealers, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the price of raw materials. We use single sources of supply for certain iron castings, motors and other select engineered components. From time to time in recent years, we have experienced a disruption to our supply deliveries and may experience further supply disruptions. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely meet our commitments to customers and, therefore, our operating results. More than half of our sales and operations are in non-U.S. jurisdictions and we are subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 61% of our revenues were from customers in countries outside of the United States. We have manufacturing facilities in Germany, the UK, China, Finland, Italy, Brazil, Sweden and Canada. We intend to continue to expand our international operations to the extent that suitable opportunities become available. Non-U.S. operations and U.S. export sales could be adversely affected as a result of: • political or economic instability in certain countries; • differences in foreign laws, including increased difficulties in protecting intellectual property and uncertainty in enforcement of contract rights; • credit risks; • currency fluctuations, in particular, changes in currency exchange rates between the USD, the EUR, the GBP and the CNY; • exchange controls; • changes in tariff restrictions; • royalty and tax increases; • potential problems obtaining supply of raw materials; • nationalization of private enterprises; • shipping products during times of crisis or war; and • other factors inherent in foreign operations. 14 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected by a reduction of business with key customers for petroleum products. Although we have no customers that individually represent 5% or more of our total annual sales, we derive revenue from certain key customers for our petroleum products and the loss or reduction of any significant contracts with any of these customers could result in a material decrease of our future profitability and cash flows. In addition, lost sales may be difficult to replace due to the relative concentration of the customer base in this market segment. The nature of our products creates the possibility of significant product liability and warranty claims, which could harm our business. Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. In addition, our products are integral to the production process for some end-users and any failure of our products could result in a suspension of operations. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defects. We maintain amounts and types of insurance coverage that we believe are currently adequate and consistent with normal industry practice for a company of our relative size, and limit our liability by contract wherever possible. However, we cannot guarantee that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all liabilities incurred. We also may not be able to maintain insurance in the future at levels we believe are necessary and at rates we consider reasonable. We may be named as a defendant in product liability or other lawsuits asserting potentially large claims if an accident occurs at a location where our equipment and services have been or are being used. We may not fully realize the expected financial benefits from future restructuring actions. In the last few years, we have implemented significant restructuring activities across our business to improve our cost structure. We continually seek ways to improve efficiencies and reduce costs in all areas of our operations. Future restructuring actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we anticipate from these actions. Our success depends on our executive management and other key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for key personnel could have an adverse impact. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited, and the competition for talent is robust. However, we provide long-term equity incentives and certain other benefits for our executive officers which provide incentives for them to make a long-term commitment to our Company. Our future success will also depend on our ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations and implementation of our strategic plan. Communication or information systems failure may disrupt our business and result in financial loss and liability to our customers. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data-processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If any of these systems fail, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise, or they do not function correctly, we could suffer financial loss, business disruption, liability to our customers, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. If our systems are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions, our ability to grow could be limited. Although we have back-up systems, procedures and capabilities in place, they may also fail or be inadequate. 15 Table of Contents The loss of, or disruption in, our distribution network could have a negative impact on our abilities to ship products, meet customer demand, and otherwise operate our business. We sell our products through independent distributors and sales representatives. We rely in large part on the orderly operation of this distribution network, which depends on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient and well-positioned to support our operations and strategic plans, we cannot assure that we have anticipated all issues or that events beyond our control, such as natural disasters or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not disrupt our distribution network. If complications arise within a segment of our distribution network, the remaining network may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. Any of these disruptions or complications could negatively impact our revenues, back-log and costs. Our business could suffer if we experience employee work stoppages, union and work council campaigns or other labor difficulties. As of January 2012, we had approximately 6,800 full-time employees. A significant number of our employees, including a large portion of the employees outside of the U.S., are represented by works councils and labor unions. Although we do not anticipate future work stoppages by our union employees, work stoppages may occur. Although we believe that our relations with employees are satisfactory and have not experienced any material work stoppages, we may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. Additionally, future negotiations with our union employees may (i) result in significant increases in our cost of labor, (ii) divert management’s attention away from operating our business or (iii) breakdown and result in the disruption of our operations. The occurrence of any of the preceding conditions could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating results. The risk of potential changes in shale oil and gas regulation. Potential changes in the regulation of shale oil and gas exploration and extraction could negatively affect our ability to develop products for this market and meet our customer demand. We are a defendant in certain asbestos and silica personal injury lawsuits, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in a number of asbestos and silica personal injury lawsuits. The plaintiffs in these suits allege exposure to asbestos or silica from multiple sources, and typically we are one of approximately 25 or more named defendants. In our experience to date, the substantial majority of the plaintiffs have not suffered an injury for which we bear responsibility. We believe that the pending lawsuits are not likely to, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. However, future developments, including, without limitation, potential insolvencies of insurance companies or other defendants, an adverse determination in the Adams County Case (as defined in “Contingencies” contained in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) or other inability to collect from the Company’s historical insurers or indemnitors, could cause a different outcome. Accordingly, the resolution of pending or future lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. However, at this time, based on presently available information, the Company views this possibility as remote. The risk of non-compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our international operations could have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Our global operations subject us to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and multiple foreign laws, regulations and policies, which could result in conflicting legal requirements. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include import and export control, environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws and work councils and anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, the U.N. Convention Against Bribery and local laws 16 Table of Contents prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. We are subject to the risk that we, our employees, our affiliated entities, contractors, agents or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of any of these laws, particularly as we expand our operations geographically through organic growth and acquisitions. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Environmental-compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to increasingly stringent domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. Under such laws and regulations, we can be subject to substantial fines and sanctions for violations and be required to install costly pollution control equipment or effect operational changes to limit pollution emissions or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and regulations. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party with respect to several sites designated for cleanup under U.S. federal “Superfund” or similar state laws. An accrued liability on our balance sheet reflects costs that are probable and estimable for our projected financial obligations relating to these matters. If we have underestimated our remaining financial obligations, we may face greater exposure that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with regulatory requirements relating to environmental matters, and many environmental laws impose joint and several liability for remediation for cleanup of certain waste sites and for related natural resource damages. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. Certain scientists, legislators and others attribute global warning to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to legislative and regulatory efforts in some jurisdictions to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Based on existing regulations and international accords in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, the costs associated with compliance with such regulations are not material to our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Because we are uncertain what laws, regulations and accords may be enacted in the future, we cannot predict the potential impact of any such future laws, and any such future laws, regulations and accords may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 17 Table of Contents Third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property or may claim we have infringed their intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality provisions, contractual restrictions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully enforce these intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Although we make a significant effort to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties, from time to time we may receive notice that a third party believes that our products may be infringing certain patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of such third party. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be costly and time consuming, and can divert management’s attention and other resources. Depending on the resolution of such claims, we may be barred from using a specific technology or other right, may be required to redesign or re-engineer a product, or may become liable for significant damages. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”), goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Impairment assessment under GAAP requires that we consider, among other factors, differences between the current book value and estimated fair value of our net assets, and comparison of the estimated fair value of our net assets to our current market capitalization. As of December 31, 2011, the net carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1,025.5 million, or 43% of our total assets. In 2009, we recorded impairment charges totaling $252.5 million to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill in the Industrial Products Group and a $9.9 million impairment charge primarily to reduce the carrying value of a trade name in the Industrial Products Group. Based on our annual impairment testing conducted in 2011, and a review of any potential indicators of impairment, we concluded that the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets were not further impaired. If goodwill or other assets are further impaired based on a future impairment test, we could be required to record additional non-cash impairment charges to our operating income. Such non-cash impairment charges, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the period recognized, reduce our consolidated stockholders’ equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to public debt and equity markets. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial flexibility. We had debt of $403.8 million at December 31, 2011, and our indebtedness could have an adverse future effect on our business. For example: • borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at floating rates, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates; • we may have a limited ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, restructuring costs, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes; • a portion of our cash flow will be used to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, selective acquisitions, payment of cash dividends and other purposes; • we may be more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; and • the various covenants contained in our credit agreement and the documents governing our other existing indebtedness may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage as compared to some of our competitors. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits. We have completed 24 acquisitions since becoming an independent company in 1994. We expect to continue making acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. Furthermore, our existing operations may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Even if we can complete future acquisitions, we face significant challenges in consolidating functions and effectively integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process can be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to our existing and acquired businesses, and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, those businesses. Even if we can successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, any anticipated cost savings, synergies, or revenue enhancements may not be realized within the expected time frame, or at all. We face risks associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. We have both funded and unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans worldwide. As of December 31, 2011, our projected benefit obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $99.4 million (“unfunded status”), compared to $95.3 million at December 31, 2010. Estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these benefit plans are based on various assumptions. These assumptions include discount rates, rates of compensation increases, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and expected healthcare cost trend rates. If our assumptions prove incorrect, our funding obligations may increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have invested the plan assets of our funded benefit plans in various equity and debt securities. A deterioration in the value of plan assets could cause the unfunded status of these benefit plans to increase, thereby increasing our obligation to make additional contributions to these plans. An obligation to make contributions to our benefit plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 