Item 1A. Risk Factors As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition. We have a history of losses, we could continue to incur losses in the future, and we may never achieve sustained profitability. We had net losses of $17.2 million and $23.4 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2007 was $142.0 million. Our future results will be affected by our ability to grow our commercial sales and expand the commercial customer base, manage costs related to the residential segment and generate meaningful sales of the residential product. We can provide no assurance that our future operations will be profitable. We continue to expand rapidly, and we may be unable to manage our growth. We intend to continue the rapid growth of our business, but we cannot be sure that we will successfully manage this growth. Continued growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. There also will be additional demands on our sales, marketing and information systems and on our administrative infrastructure as we develop and offer new and additional products and enter new markets. We cannot assure you that our operating and financial control systems, administrative infrastructure, outsourced and internal production capacity, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business may be harmed. We have a long sales cycle that requires an extended sales effort and is difficult to predict. A customer’s decision to purchase our commercial ovens often involves a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process, and selling our commercial ovens often requires us to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our speed cook technology and services. In addition, the integration of our ovens into a customer’s business is often a company-wide initiative, which can include the development of new menus and food products and the launch of new marketing and advertising campaigns. These factors have made the sales cycles for our commercial ovens long, ranging from a few months to several years, making it difficult for us to predict when sales to potential customers may occur. We may not be able to accurately forecast continued sales to a customer. While we may provide financial guidance to the marketplace based upon business projections given to us and reasonable assumptions we may make therefrom about the purchasing plans of significant customers, we may not be able to reasonably foresee significant changes in the customer’s business that materially impact the level of purchases or timing of purchases of our products by the customer. Changes in economic conditions, consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns could adversely affect our business. Purchases of our residential products are discretionary for consumers. Therefore, we are susceptible to economic slowdowns. Consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. The performance of the economy is affected by numerous economic, political and other factors which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, consumer interest rates, consumer confidence, retail trends, housing starts and sales of existing homes. These factors are likely to affect demand for our products, particularly our residential ovens. Slowdowns in the United States economy and any other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending habits, which could adversely affect our sales, growth, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to disclose the identity of our customers or potential customers and their oven orders. We may not be able to disclose the identity of our existing and potential customers or any information about their plans for our products. Companies in the competitive restaurant and food service industry are secretive about their plans for new food concepts and expansion of menu items, and they usually do not approve of vendors 14 disclosing information about equipment tests, orders or purchases that directly or indirectly expose their plans. Many also require that we enter into non-disclosure agreements prohibiting us from disclosing such information. We have an obligation to our stockholders not to risk the loss of new business because of our premature disclosure of the plans of our customers or potential customers against their wishes or in violation of our contractual commitments. Our inability to disclose this information could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Because the market for our commercial and residential ovens is an emerging sector of the cooking equipment market, we will be required to undertake significant marketing efforts to achieve market acceptance, the success of which we cannot predict. Notwithstanding our successes to date, the market for our commercial ovens is a nascent sector of the commercial cooking equipment market. Further, the market for our residential ovens is new and being created primarily by us. As is typical with new products based on innovative technologies, demand for and market acceptance of our ovens are subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving market acceptance for our ovens will require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to increase public awareness of our brand and our products, and to educate potential customers as to the distinctive characteristics and benefits of our products and our technologies. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts will result in significant market acceptance of our ovens. The success of our entry into the residential oven market is subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business enterprise, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this endeavor. An important part of our growth strategy includes the successful market introduction and acceptance of residential speed cook ovens. Our entry into the residential oven market is subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, and acceptance of our speed cook products in this market will depend upon our ability to, among other things, successfully: • create and develop demand for and market acceptance of our technologies in the residential oven market; • market, promote and distribute our speed cook ovens and establish public awareness of our brand in the residential oven market; • compete with the numerous, well-established manufacturers and suppliers of conventional and speed cook ovens already in the residential oven market; and • establish and maintain sufficient internal research and development, marketing, sales, production and customer service infrastructures to support these efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter this market. We have and expect to continue to devote considerable resources and expenditures to our residential oven business, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to be successful in this market. If we cannot successfully build our residential oven business, our financial performance may suffer and our business may be harmed. We are dependent on a network of independent dealers to reach the residential oven market and for success in selling our residential oven products. We have limited ability to conduct the cooking demonstrations and reach our target consumer market across the U.S. with our own personnel. We depend upon independent dealers to represent and promote our residential oven directly to the consumer, builder or other target customer. While we train, incentivize and continuously encourage dealer support, we have no control over their businesses and we are dependent upon them for our sales success. We are subject to risks associated with developing products and technologies, which could delay product introductions and result in significant expenditures. We continually seek to refine and improve upon the physical attributes, utility and performance of our existing ovens and to develop new ovens. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with new product and technological development, including unanticipated technical or other problems and the possible insufficiency of 15 funds allocated for the completion of development of a particular product or technology. The occurrence of any of these risks could cause a substantial change in the design, delay in the development, or abandonment of new technologies and products. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will develop oven technologies superior to our current technologies, successfully bring to market new commercial ovens, or develop and successfully commercialize our residential line of ovens. Additionally, there can be no assurance that, if developed, new technologies or products will meet our current price or performance objectives, be developed on a timely basis or prove to be as effective as products based on other technologies. The inability to successfully complete the development of a product, or a determination by us, for financial, technical or other reasons, not to complete development of a product, particularly in instances in which we have made significant expenditures, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to keep up with evolving technology, our products may become obsolete. The market for our products and technologies is characterized by evolving technology. We will not be able to compete successfully unless we continually enhance and improve our existing products, complete development and introduce to the market in a timely manner our proposed products, adapt our products to the needs and standards of our customers and potential customers, and continue to improve operating efficiencies and lower manufacturing costs. Moreover, competitors may develop technologies or products that render our products obsolete or less marketable. We may not be able to compete effectively because our target markets are highly competitive, and some of our competitors have greater financial or technological resources. Both the speed cook sector of the commercial cooking equipment market and the residential oven market are characterized by intense competition. We compete, and will in the future compete, with numerous well-established manufacturers and suppliers of commercial and residential ovens, including manufacturers and suppliers whose ovens have been developed under licenses of our proprietary speed cook technologies. We also are aware of others who are developing, and in some cases have introduced, new ovens based on other speed cook methods and technologies. There can be no assurance that other companies do not have or are not currently developing functionally equivalent products, or that functionally equivalent products will not become available in the near future. In addition, there can be no assurance that the products that we develop will be functionally superior to, or gain more commercial acceptance than, products currently being produced by third parties who have exclusive licenses to some of our proprietary technologies. Most of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, and have established reputations relating to product design, development, manufacture, brand recognition, marketing and service of cooking equipment. We are subject to potential disruptions in material and component supply and other potential adverse effects. We do not maintain supply agreements with third parties for raw materials or components. Instead, we purchase these items pursuant to purchase orders in the ordinary course of business. We attempt to maintain multiple sources of supply for these items, but some of the specially-designed components used in our ovens are sourced from a limited number of suppliers. We may utilize contract manufacturers to fabricate components and assemble our residential oven, and we may outsource fabrication of parts or components to foreign operations. We are and will continue to be dependent on the ability of these third parties to, among other things, meet our design, performance and quality specifications, provide components and, in the case of residential products, produce finished ovens in a timely manner. Events beyond our control could have an adverse effect on the cost or availability of raw materials and components. Shipment delays, unexpected price increases or changes in payment terms from our suppliers of components could impact our ability to secure necessary components. The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, competitive position and reputation. Depending upon supply from foreign countries also subjects us to various risks inherent in foreign manufacturing, including increased credit risks, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, acts of terrorism and international political, regulatory and economic developments. Any of these risks could increase our costs of goods, interrupt our operations or have a significant impact on our foreign suppliers’ ability to deliver components. 16 We may need additional capital to finance growth and to execute our business plan, and we may be unable to obtain additional capital under terms acceptable to us or at all. Our capital requirements in connection with the execution of our business plan, including our marketing and sales efforts, continuing commercial and residential product development and working capital needs, are expected to be significant for the foreseeable future. In addition, unanticipated events could cause our revenues to be lower and our costs to be higher than expected, resulting in the need for additional capital. While we believe that our present capital, together with our bank credit facility, provides us the ability to execute our business plan, we cannot make assurances in this regard. Further, if we do not have sufficient funds available, or are unable to obtain capital necessary to meet our future requirements, we may be unable to fund the research, development and sale of ovens, and we may have to delay or abandon one or more aspects of our business plan, any of which could harm our business. Our financial performance is subject to significant fluctuations. Our financial performance is subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, including: • our lengthy, unpredictable sales cycle for commercial ovens; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • unexpected delays in new product introductions; • level of market acceptance of our residential ovens and any new or enhanced versions of our products; • unexpected changes in the levels of our operating expenses including increased research and development and sales and marketing expenses associated with new product introductions; • competitive product offerings and pricing actions; and • general economic conditions. The occurrence of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our operating results and the price of our common stock. We rely heavily on our senior management team and the expertise of management personnel. Our operations will depend for the foreseeable future on the efforts of our executive officers and our other senior management to execute our business plan, and any of our executive officers or senior management can terminate his relationship with us at any time. Our business and prospects could be adversely affected if these persons, in significant numbers, do not perform their key roles as expected, or terminate their relationships with us, and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. We may not realize the potential benefit of our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property. There can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection which existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that any patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents, pending patent applications, registered trademarks or service marks, pending trademark applications or trademarks will be upheld if challenged or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. There can be no assurance that we will have all of the resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how and employ various methods to protect the concepts, ideas and documentation of our proprietary technologies. However, those methods may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts, ideas and documentation. If our products or intellectual property violate the rights of others, we may become liable for damages. If any of our existing or future products, trademarks, service marks or other proprietary rights infringe patents, trademarks, service marks or proprietary rights of others, including others to which we have exclusively licensed some of our proprietary cooking technologies, we could become liable for damages and may be required to modify 17 the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of our products. There can be no assurance that we would be able to make any of these modifications or changes in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all. The failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to manufacture and market our products. Our business subjects us to significant regulatory compliance burdens. We are subject to regulations administered by various federal, state, local and international authorities, including those administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications Commission and the European Community Council. These regulations impose significant compliance burdens on us and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such regulations. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may subject us to civil and criminal sanctions and penalties. Moreover, new legislation and regulations, as well as revisions to existing laws and regulations, at the federal, state, local and international levels may be proposed in the future affecting the foodservice equipment industry. These proposals could affect our operations, result in material capital expenditures, affect the marketability of our existing products and technologies and/or limit opportunities for us with respect to modifications of our existing products or with respect to our new or proposed products or technologies. In addition, expansion of our operations into new markets may require us to comply with additional regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with additional applicable laws and regulations without excessive cost or business interruption, and failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on us. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or an inability to acquire insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We are engaged in a business which could expose us to various claims, including claims by foodservice operators and their staffs, as well as by consumers, for personal injury or property damage due to design or manufacturing defects or otherwise. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms and our historical claims experience. However, a material product liability or other claim could be brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or could not be covered by our then-existing insurance. Additionally, a material product liability or other claim could be brought against us that damages the reputation of our technologies or products in the market. Any of these types of claims could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Sales to three customers accounted for 66%, 55% and 60% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops purchasing our products. While we believe it is important to our success that we continue to sell to our existing base of commercial customers to meet their expansion or replacement needs, we are focused on extending our customer base by concentrating our internal sales efforts on major foodservice operators and by supporting our networks of manufacturer’s representatives and equipment distributors. We expect that an expanding number of customers will contribute to a growing number of sales. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these top customers is important to the growth and profitability of our business. If we fail to sell our products to one or more of these top customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, and if we fail to replace that business with sales to other existing and/or new customers, our revenue could decline, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related To Ownership Of Our Common Stock Our recent restatement may continue to negatively impact our stock. We were required to restate certain prior financial statements upon conclusion of our internal investigation relating to past stock option practices. This investigation, which was undertaken in response to an informal SEC inquiry we received in February 2007, resulted in our concluding that the measurement dates for financial accounting 18 purposes for a number of stock option grants differed from the recorded grant dates for such awards and, as a consequence, material amounts of stock compensation expenses were not properly recognized in our previously issued financial statements. Although we believe we have appropriately addressed all issues regarding the improper accounting and reporting of these option grants in our restatement of the affected periods in our Form 10-K filing for our 2006 fiscal year, we have not yet received notice of what regulatory action, if any, will be taken by the SEC. We have incurred significant expenses relating to legal, accounting, tax, and other professional services in connection with the review of our stock option grant practices and the related restatement, and may incur significant expenses in the future with respect to such matters if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which the issues were resolved and continues its investigation. We could also be exposed to litigation or additional regulatory proceedings relating to our past stock option practices. If any litigation or government enforcement action is instituted against us, the resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and distract management from the conduct of our business. Such proceedings could also result in adverse findings which could require us to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, all of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to review by taxing authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service. We are subject to review by domestic and foreign taxing authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service. We understand the IRS intends to focus on issues relating to stock option grants. We believe the investigation of our stock option practices, the re-measurement of various historic stock option grants and our handling of related tax issues may subject us to a higher risk of inquiry or audit with its attendant potential costs. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and difficult to predict and may continue to be volatile and difficult to predict. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock will be affected by, among other things: • variations in quarterly operating results; • potential initiation and subsequent changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets; • changes in accounting standards, policies or interpretations; • other developments affecting us, our industry, clients or competitors; and; • the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us. Any of these factors could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market, make it difficult to predict the market price for our common stock and cause the value of your investment to decline. The exercise of options or vesting and payout of restricted stock units will result in dilution to you. At March 1, 2008, 2.8 million shares of our common stock were subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options, 626,000 shares were subject to issuance upon vesting and payout under outstanding restricted stock units, and an indeterminate number of shares issuable in the future to settle the dollar denominated restricted stock units issued in connection with the tender offer and amendment of options completed in December 2007. Your ownership will be diluted by the exercise of any of these outstanding stock options and the vesting and payout of the restricted stock units. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The liquidity of the trading market for our common stock may be affected in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control the opinions of these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. 19 Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • provide for the filling of vacancies on our board of directors by action of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the stockholders at a meeting. These and other provisions in our organizational documents could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder in a number of ways, including making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for approving the appointment of members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. These provisions could also limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC require us to include in our Form 10-K a report by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the respective fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, components of our internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of those internal controls, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. During fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007, we incurred substantial costs in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and having our independent auditor attest to that evaluation. Compliance with these requirements has been and is expected to continue to be expensive and time consuming. We also incurred substantial costs associated with our review of historical stock options and stock grants, and the resulting restatements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2006. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These 20 new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 