ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The following risk factors are not necessarily exhaustive, particularly as to possible future events, and new risk factors may arise from time to time. Many things can happen that can cause our actual financial and operating results to be different than those described or anticipated by us in our SEC filings. As noted above, references to “our hotel properties” and similar references herein for periods from and after February 27, 2015 refer to the Remaining Hotels, which are owned by Senior Mezz and are currently under contract for sale and in which we own a 3% equity interest. See “Item 1. Business” for additional information. -23- Table of Contents Risks related to our business As a result of the sale of the Portfolio, we are at risk of not collecting the preferred return and the initial capital contribution of the Preferred Equity either through the interest held by us or our 3% equity interest in Senior Mezz. At the closing of the sale of the Portfolio, the Preferred Equity in the Pool I Owner was issued to the Sellers of the Pool I Hotels and the Preferred Equity in the Pool II Owner was issued to the Sellers of the Pool II Hotels. The Preferred Equity is our most significant asset as of March 31, 2015 through both the Preferred Equity owned directly by us and the Preferred Equity owned indirectly through our 3% equity interest in Senior Mezz. In each case, for the 18-month period after the closing, the Preferred Equity will accrue an annual preferred return of 7.50%. Thereafter, the annual preferred return will increase to 8.00%. The preferred return is payable in cash on a current basis each month. The Preferred Equity has a full liquidation preference prior to any other equity in the issuer. The Preferred Equity is fully redeemable at any time at par plus any accrued and unpaid preferred return. In addition, there are certain mandatory redemption events, including a requirement that 50% of the Preferred Equity be redeemed by the third anniversary of the closing and 100% of the Preferred Equity be redeemed by the fourth anniversary of the closing. The ability of the Pool I Owner and the Pool II Owner to make the payments described above will depend upon the performance of the Portfolio. Generally, the risks to our business relating to hotels apply to the Portfolio and also to the ability of the Pool I Owner and the Pool II Owner to make payments to the Sellers in respect of the Preferred Equity. There can be no assurance as to whether or when the Sellers will receive payment of its initial capital contribution in respect of the Preferred Equity. In addition, in the event that a Changeover Event occurs, we and Senior Mezz may assume control of the Portfolio, which would be subject to the risks inherent in owning a portfolio of hotel assets. Our business depends upon demand for hotel rooms. Any setback in the economic recovery will adversely affect our future financial condition and cash flow. Our hotel properties experienced declining operating performance across various U.S. markets during the recent economic recession. Our business prospects depend upon continued revenue and net income growth from anticipated improvement in demand for hotel rooms as the economic recovery continues, both in respect of the Preferred Equity -24- Table of Contents and in the Remaining Hotels. We, however, cannot provide any assurances that demand for hotel rooms will increase from current levels, or the time or extent of any such demand growth. If demand does not continue to increase as the economy recovers, or if there is a setback in the economic recovery resulting in weakening demand, our operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, any delay in the continued economic recovery or a new economic downturn will adversely affect our future cash flow. Our returns depend on management of our hotels by third parties, and ineffective or poor management could result in losses to our shareholders. Although we and WNT own the Remaining Hotels, third party operators operating under management agreements control the daily operations of these hotels. Under the terms of the management agreements, our and WNT’s ability to participate in operating decisions regarding the Remaining Hotels is limited. We and WNT depend on these third party management companies to adequately operate the hotels as provided in the management agreements. Neither we nor WNT have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (for instance, setting room rates). Thus, even if we or WNT believe the hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, RevPAR and ADR, we may not be able to cause the management company to change its method of operation of our hotels. We and WNT can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of the applicable management agreement, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the management agreement. Additionally, in the event that any of the management companies that manage our hotels need to be replaced, we and WNT may experience significant disruptions at the hotels and in the operations generally. The terms of our franchise agreements and the risk of loss of a franchise could adversely affect our business. The Remaining Hotels operate under franchise agreements, and we are subject to the risks that are found in concentrating our hotel investments in several franchise brands. These risks include reductions in business following negative publicity related to one of our brands. The maintenance of the franchise licenses for the hotels is subject to the franchisors’ operating standards and other terms and conditions. The franchisors periodically inspect the hotels to ensure that the owners and the companies that manage our hotels follow their standards. Failure by us, WNT or one of the companies which manage our hotels to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. If a franchise license terminates due to a failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, there may be liability to the franchisor for a termination payment, which varies by franchisor and by hotel. As a condition of the continued holding of a franchise license, a franchisor could also possibly require capital expenditures to be made, even if we or WNT do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return on our investment. Accordingly, there is a risk of losing a franchise license if franchisor required capital expenditures are not made. If a franchisor terminates the franchise license, we and WNT may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor and could materially and adversely affect our revenues. -25- Table of Contents We may not be able to sell our hotels on favorable terms or at all On February 27, 2015, we and the other Sellers sold the Portfolio, resulting in Senior Mezz continuing to own the Remaining Hotels. On March 25, 2015, subsidiaries of Senior Mezz entered into an agreement to sell the Remaining Hotels for $100 million. The agreement has customary closing conditions and closing is currently scheduled for June 8, 2015. There can be no assurance as to whether or when the sale will close, as to the actual proceeds that will be realized if it does close or as to what the assets might ultimately sell for in an alternate transaction if the pending transaction does not close. Even if the transaction does close, there can be no assurance as to when a distribution from such sale proceeds will be received by the Company. We cannot assure you that the market value of the Remaining Hotels will not decrease in the future. If the sale of the Remaining Hotels described above does not occur and/or a Changeover Event occurs and we and Senior Mezz assume control over the Portfolio, we may not be able to sell the hotels on favorable terms, and such hotels may be sold at a loss. We face competition for buyers of our hotel properties. Other sellers of hotels may have the financial resources to dispose of their hotels on unfavorable terms that we would be unable to accept. Risks related to the real estate and lodging industries Investing in hotel assets involves unique risks. We have invested in hotels, which are subject to all the risks common to the hotel industry. These risks could adversely affect hotel occupancy and rates that can be charged for hotel rooms, and generally include: • competition from other hotel properties in our markets; • over-building of hotels in our markets, which results in increased supply and could adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; • increases in operating costs due to inflation, increased energy costs and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • increases in assessed property taxes from changes in valuation or real estate tax rates; • increases in the cost of property insurance; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; -26- Table of Contents • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns which could reduce travel, including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related accidents, travel infrastructure interruptions and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis and earthquakes; • adverse effects of national, regional, and local economic and market conditions and increases in energy costs or labor costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in more detail below. These factors could adversely affect hotel revenues and expenses in properties in which we hold interests, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition, net income and cash flows. Failure of the hotel industry to continue to improve or remain stable may adversely affect our financial condition, net income and cash flows. Our business is focused on the hotel industry, and we cannot assure you that hotel industry fundamentals will continue to improve or remain stable. Economic slowdown and world events outside our control, such as terrorism, have adversely affected the hotel industry in the recent past and if these events reoccur, may adversely affect the industry in the future. In the event conditions in the hotel industry do not continue to improve or remain stable, our financial condition, net income and cash flows will be adversely affected. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Although Senior Mezz’s subsidiaries are under contract to sell the Remaining Hotels, there can be no assurance that such sale will close. If it does not close, we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in costs of compliance with governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies, zoning and other ordinances; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; -27- Table of Contents • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and cash flow. Significant capital expenditures may be required to maintain our hotels. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Franchisors of the hotels may also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of maintaining franchise licenses. Generally, owners of hotels are responsible for the cost of these capital improvements, which gives rise to the following risks: • cost overruns and delays; • renovations can be disruptive to operations and can displace revenue at the hotels, including revenue lost while rooms under renovation are out of service; • the cost of funding renovations and the possibility that financing for these renovations may not be available on attractive terms; and • the risk that the return on our investment in these capital improvements will not be what we expect. If we have insufficient cash flow to fund needed capital expenditures, then borrowing or liquidation of hotels or other assets may be required to fund future capital improvements. Our hotels could be subject to environmental risks. Our past and present hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require the owner of a contaminated property to clean up the property, even if the owner did not know of or was not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of cleanup, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under the environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, like a landfill or an incinerator, to pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. Various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination, such as asbestos. -28- Table of Contents In addition, when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our hotels could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected hotel. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from guests, employees and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Our hotels may not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other government regulations. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the ADA), all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require costly removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. If we and/or Senior Mezz are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, net income and cash flows could be adversely impacted. The insurance maintained for our hotels may be inadequate. Senior Mezz maintains comprehensive insurance on each of our hotels, including liability and property coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism, for which our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our damaged or destroyed asset. Inflation, increases in insurance premiums, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors could also keep us from using insurance proceeds to fully replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. In those circumstances, the insurance proceeds that we receive could be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed hotel. We could be responsible for the costs discussed above if an environmental condition existed or was alleged to exist at one of our properties. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be substantial and could adversely affect our net income and cash flow. Even though we have not encountered a substantial environmental claim to date, we may have material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. We can make no assurances that future laws or regulations will not impose material environmental liabilities or the current environmental condition of our hotels will not be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotels (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. -29- Table of Contents The hotel business is seasonal, which affects our cash flow from quarter to quarter. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can cause quarterly fluctuations in our financial condition, net income and cash flow. Our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors in certain markets in which our hotels operate. We can provide no assurances that our cash flows will be sufficient to offset any shortfalls that occur as a result of these fluctuations. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if revenue from our hotels decreases. Many costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance premiums and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a hotel is not fully occupied, room rates decrease or other circumstances cause a reduction in revenues. In addition, newly renovated hotels may not produce the revenues we anticipate immediately, or at all, and the hotel’s operating cash flow may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with these hotels. If our hotels are unable to offset real estate costs with sufficient revenues, we may be adversely affected. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may materially and adversely affect our profitability. Although a majority of rooms sold on the Internet are sold through websites maintained by the hotel franchisors and managers, some of our hotel rooms will be booked through Internet travel intermediaries. Typically, these Internet travel intermediaries purchase rooms at a negotiated discount from participating hotels, which could result in lower room rates than the franchisor or manager otherwise could have obtained. As these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us and any hotel management companies that we engage. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality, such as “three-star downtown hotel,” at the expense of brand identification or quality of product or service. If consumers develop brand loyalties to Internet reservations systems rather than to the brands under which our hotels are franchised, the value of our hotels could deteriorate and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Risks related to our organization and structure We are subject to the risk of possibly being required to register as an investment company. On February 27, 2015, we completed the sale of the Portfolio to ARCH and in return acquired the Preferred Equity, which currently represents more than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of cash and certain cash equivalents). Although -30- Table of Contents our Board of Directors believes that we are not engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and we do not hold ourselves out as being primarily engaged in those activities, we appear to fall within the scope of section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act) because the value of our investment securities (as defined in the Investment Company Act) is more than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of cash and certain cash equivalents). A company that falls within the scope of section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act can avoid being regulated as an investment company if it can rely on certain of the exclusions from being deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. One such exclusion that management believes applies is Rule 3a-2 under the Investment Company Act, which allows a 3(a)(1)(C) investment company (as a “transient investment company”) a grace period of one year from the date of classification (in our case, the date of the sale of the Portfolio), to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act so long as it does not intend to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Rule 3a-2 under the Investment Company Act provides that a company is deemed not to be an investment company during a period of time not to exceed one year provided that the company has a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily, as soon as is reasonably possible (in any event by the termination of such period of time), in a business other than that of an investment company. Accordingly, the Board will explore transactions pursuant to which we may cease to be deemed to be an investment company, such as the merger contemplated by the stipulation described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, or the disposition of our investment securities, including through liquidation, or the acquisition of sufficient assets that are not investment securities in order for us not to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete such actions by the applicable deadline, or at all. If we were required to register as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our officers and directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with affiliated entities. All of our executive officers and directors are employed by our asset manager. As a result, these individuals may owe duties to other entities, which duties may conflict with our interests. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business. Conflicts with our business and interests are most likely to arise from involvement in activities related to management time and services between us and the other entities and transactions with the asset manager’s affiliates. -31- Table of Contents Risks related to the preferred stock There is only a limited trading market for the Series B preferred stock and the Series C preferred stock. There is only a limited trading market for the Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock. The Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock trade on the OTC under the stock symbols “WGCBP” and “WGCCP,” respectively. Therefore, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any markets that may develop for the preferred stock, the ability of holders of the preferred stock to sell their shares, or the prices at which holders may be able to sell shares of the preferred stock. Holders of shares of the preferred stock who desire to liquidate substantial holdings at a single point in time may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of such shares. Whitehall, through Grace I, could exercise its vote over our common stock in a manner that would benefit Whitehall and its affiliates to the detriment of holders of the preferred stock. Grace I, a subsidiary of Whitehall, owns all of our common stock and generally has control over decisions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors (other than the two directors which may be elected by the holders of the Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock voting together as a single class while dividends of the preferred stock are in arrears). In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between Whitehall and holders of the preferred stock, Grace I could exercise its vote over our common stock in a manner that would benefit Whitehall and its affiliates to the detriment of holders of the preferred stock. Whitehall, through PFD Holdings, LLC (PFD Holdings), could exercise its vote over the preferred stock in a manner that would benefit Whitehall and its affiliates to the detriment of other holders of the preferred stock. PFD Holdings, a subsidiary of Whitehall, owns a majority of the preferred stock. In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between Whitehall and holders of the preferred stock, PFD Holdings could exercise its vote, or fail to exercise its vote, with respect to the shares of preferred stock owned by it in a manner that would benefit Whitehall and its affiliates to the detriment of other holders of the preferred stock (including with respect to the two directors which may be elected by the holders of the Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock voting together as a single class while dividends of the preferred stock are in arrears). Our assets are insufficient to satisfy the liquidation preference and accrued and unpaid dividends. Based on the 5.85 million shares of Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock outstanding, the total amount available to be distributed from the sale of the Portfolio is not expected to exceed approximately $23.04 per share of Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock which assumes that (a) the disposition fees payable to RMD are fully paid, (b) the real estate tax make-whole under the Agreement is fully paid to ARCH and (c) the Company receives its 3% equity interest in the proposed sale of the Remaining Hotels for $100 million, net of costs to sell and does not take into account (i) the monthly preferred return, any present value discount of the Preferred Equity, or any risk that the Preferred Equity is not collectible, or (ii) any cash or other working capital assets and liabilities of the Company or Senior Mezz. While the Company currently has a stipulation of settlement pending court approval as described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” which stipulation contemplates the payment of $26.00 per share of the Series B preferred stock and the Series C preferred stock in a going-private merger, there can be no assurance when such a transaction will occur or that such a transaction will occur at all. In the event that such a settlement is not approved or does not otherwise occur, we may -32- Table of Contents engage in another transaction which would likely result in payment by us of less than $26.00 per share of the Series B preferred stock and the Series C preferred stock in extinguishment of such shares. Such a transaction may be considered prior to any redemption of the Preferred Equity in order to avoid registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act as described above. Any such transaction would likely result in the Company monetizing the Preferred Equity. Solely for the purposes of this paragraph, we have assumed we own 100% of W2007 Equity LP (which in turn owns 3% of the equity interests of Senior Mezz), even though we actually own a 1% ownership interest in W2007 Equity LP. Nothing in this paragraph is an admission or assurance that we have the right to or will acquire the other 99% interest in W2007 Equity LP. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. -33- Table of Contents 