ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in the Company will be subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. Before making an investment decision in the Company, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this report. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If any of these events occurs, the trading price of the Company’s securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The Company’s results of operations and cash flow may be reduced by decreases in the market price of its products. The Company’s finished products are commodities, the prices of which are quoted on established commodity markets. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations will be affected by fluctuations in the prevailing market prices of these finished products. A significant decrease in the market price of the Company’s products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. The most competitive aspect of the Company’s business is the procurement of raw materials. The Company’s management believes that the most competitive aspect of the Company’s business is the procurement of raw materials rather than the sale of finished products. Pronounced consolidation within the meat packing industry has resulted in bigger and more efficient slaughtering operations, the majority of which utilize “captive” processors. Simultaneously, the number of small meat packers, which have historically been a dependable source of supply for non-captive processors, such as the Company, has decreased significantly. Although the total amount of slaughtering may be flat or only moderately increasing, the availability, quantity and quality of raw materials available to the independent processors from these sources have all decreased. In addition, the Company has seen an increase in the use of restaurant grease in the production of bio-diesel. A significant decrease in available raw materials could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Page 9 The rendering and restaurant services industry is highly fragmented and very competitive. The Company competes with other rendering and restaurant services businesses and alternative methods of disposal of animal processing by-products and used restaurant cooking oil provided by trash haulers, waste management companies and bio-diesel companies, as well as the alternative of illegal disposal. Depending on market conditions, the Company charges a collection fee to offset a portion of the cost incurred in collecting raw material. To the extent suppliers of raw materials look to alternate methods of disposal, whether as a result of the Company’s collection fees being deemed too expensive or otherwise, the Company’s raw material supply will decrease and the Company’s collection fee revenues will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company may be unable to successfully complete the integration of National By-Products, LLC and achieve the benefits expected to result from the Transaction. On May 15, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of NBP with the expectation that the Transaction would result in mutual benefits including, among other things, revenue growth, diversification of raw material supplies and the creation of a larger platform to grow the restaurant services segment. The integration of NBP began in the second quarter of 2006 and continued throughout the year. For example, several facilities were decommissioned, trucking routes were shortened and several thousand raw material suppliers were redirected within the Company's newly enhanced system. Overall, the Company anticipates integration improvements will deliver approximately $5.0 million in annual benefits. Although, the operational and administrative phase of this integration is well underway, the following are among the factors that could affect the Company’s ability to achieve the full benefits of the Transaction: · Difficulties in integrating information systems used by NBP into the Company; · The failure to achieve internal control over financial reporting mandated by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOXA”) in respect of the NBP assets and operation; and · Any future goodwill impairment charges that the Company could incur with respect to the assets of NBP. The Company may incur material costs and liabilities in complying with government regulations. The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Material rules and regulations and the applicable agencies are: · The FDA, which regulates food and feed safety; · The USDA, including its agencies APHIS and FSIS, which regulates collection and production methods; · The EPA, which regulates air and water discharge requirements, as well as local and state agencies governing air and water discharge; · State Departments of Agriculture, which regulate animal by-product collection and transportation procedures and animal feed quality; · The USDOT, as well as local and state transportation agencies, which regulate the operation of the Company’s commercial vehicles; and · The SEC, which regulates securities and information required in annual and quarterly reports filed by publicly traded companies. These rules and regulations may influence the Company’s operating results at one or more facilities. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material costs and liabilities in connection with government regulations, including compliance with regulations mandated by the SEC. Page 10 The Company is highly dependent on natural gas and diesel fuel. The Company’s operations are highly dependent on the use of natural gas and diesel fuel. Energy prices for natural gas and diesel fuel are expected to remain relatively high throughout 2007. The Company consumes significant volumes of natural gas to operate boilers in its plants to generate steam to heat raw material. High natural gas prices represent a significant cost of factory operation included in cost of sales. The Company also consumes significant volumes of diesel fuel to operate its fleet of tractors and trucks used to collect raw material. High diesel fuel prices represent a significant component of cost of collection expenses included in cost of sales. Though the Company will continue to manage these costs and attempt to minimize these expenses, prices remain relatively high in fiscal 2007 and represent an ongoing challenge to the Company’s operating results for future periods. A material increase in energy prices for natural gas and diesel fuel over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” for a recent history of natural gas pricing. Multi−employer defined benefit pension plans to which the Company contributes may be under-funded. The Company contributes to several multi−employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union−represented employees. The Company does not manage these multi−employer plans. Based upon the most currently available information from plan administrators, some of which information is more than a year old, the Company believes that some of these multi−employer plans are under-funded due partially to a decline in the value of the assets supporting these plans, a reduction in the number of actively participating members for whom employer contributions are required and the level of benefits provided by the plans. In addition, the Pension Protection Act, enacted in August 2006, will require under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their under-funding, perhaps beginning as soon as 2008. As a result, the Company’s required contributions to these plans may increase in the future. Furthermore, under current law regarding multi−employer defined benefit plans, any of a plan’s termination, the Company’s voluntary withdrawal from any under-funded plan, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any under-funded multi−employer defined benefit plan, would require the Company to make payments to the plan for the Company’s proportionate share of the multi−employer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Moreover, if a multi−employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. Requirements to pay increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity and results of operations. Darling’s business may be negatively impacted by a significant outbreak of avian influenza (“Bird Flu”) in the U.S. Avian influenza (“H5N1”), or Bird Flu, a highly contagious disease that affects chickens and other poultry species, has spread throughout Asia and Europe at an unprecedented rate. The H5N1 strain is highly pathogenic, which has caused concern that a pandemic could occur if the disease migrates from birds to humans. This highly pathogenic strain was not detected in North or South America during 2006, but low pathogenic strains that are not a threat to human health were reported in the U.S. during that period. The USDA has developed safeguards to protect the U.S. poultry industry from the H5N1 strain of Bird Flu. These safeguards are based on import restrictions, disease surveillance and a response plan for isolating and depopulating infected flocks if the disease is detected. Notwithstanding these safeguards, any significant outbreak of Bird Flu in the U.S. could have a negative impact on the Company’s business by reducing demand for MBM. The Company’s business may be affected by the impact of BSE. Effective August 1997, the FDA promulgated the BSE Feed Rule in an effort to prevent the spread of BSE. Detection of the first case of BSE in the U.S. in December 2003 resulted in additional U.S. government regulations, finished product export restrictions by foreign governments, market price fluctuations for the Company’s finished products and reduced demand for beef and beef products by consumers. Even though the export markets for U.S. beef have been re-opened, these markets remain closed to U.S. MBM derived from beef. Continued concern about BSE in the U.S. may result in additional regulatory and market related challenges that may affect the Company’s operations or increase the Company’s operating costs. See Item 1, “Business - Regulations.” Page 11 The following are recent developments and recent regulatory history with respect to BSE in the U.S.: · On March 13, 2006, a beef cow at least 10 years of age tested positive for BSE. This was the third BSE-positive animal detected in the U.S. since December 23, 2003. This latest BSE-positive cow was euthanized on an Alabama farm and did not enter the food or feed chains. · On August 25, 2006, the USDA ended the enhanced BSE surveillance plan that began on June 1, 2004 and resulted in the detection of only two positive samples out of 787,711 cattle that were tested. The USDA concluded that the prevalence of BSE in the U.S. is extremely low with an incidence of less than 1 case per million adult cattle. Based on this statistic and following international standards, the agency developed an on-going or maintenance surveillance plan that was implemented on August 28, 2006. Only about 40,000 cattle per year will be tested under the on-going surveillance plan. The change from enhanced to on-going surveillance will reduce the average number of cattle tested in the U.S. each week from more than 6,000 head to fewer than 800 head. The plan to scale back on testing is expected to reduce future rendering revenues, but the impact of this reduction is not known at this time. · In 2005, the FDA proposed the Proposed Rule to amend the BSE Feed Rule by also prohibiting from the food or feed of all animals: (1) brain and spinal cord from cattle 30 months and older that are inspected and passed for human consumption; (2) the brain and spinal cord from cattle of any age not inspected and passed for human consumption; and (3) the entire carcass of cattle not inspected and passed for human consumption if the brain and spinal cord has not been removed. The FDA has not finalized this Proposed Rule. Although management will continue to monitor the Proposed Rule and other regulatory issues, it is possible that the Proposed Rule or other FDA regulatory action could negatively impact the Company’s operations and financial performance. The occurrence of BSE in the U.S. may result in additional U.S. government regulations, finished product export restrictions by foreign governments, market price fluctuations for the Company’s finished products, reduced demand for beef and beef products by consumers or increase the Company’s operating costs. Certain of the Company’s 39 operating facilities are highly dependent upon a few suppliers. Certain of the Company’s rendering facilities are highly dependent on one or a few suppliers. Should any of these suppliers choose alternate methods of disposal, cease their operations, have their operations interrupted by casualty or otherwise cease using the Company’s collection services, these operating facilities may be materially and adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect the Company. The Company’s success is dependent on the Company’s key personnel. The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon a number of key employees, including members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. The Company believes that its future success will depend in part on its ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled technical, managerial, marketing and sales personnel. Competition for these types of skilled personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining key personnel. The failure to hire and retain these personnel could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In certain markets the Company is highly dependent upon the continued and uninterrupted operation of a single operating facility. In the event of a casualty or condemnation involving one of the Company’s facilities, in a majority of the Company’s markets the Company would utilize a nearby operating facility to continue to serve its customers in the affected market. In certain markets, however, the Company does not have alternate operating facilities. In the event of a casualty, condemnation or unscheduled shutdown in these markets, the Company may experience an interruption in its ability to service its customers and to procure raw materials. This may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations in those markets. In addition, after an operating facility affected by a casualty or condemnation is restored, there could be no assurance that customers who in the interim choose to use alternative disposal services would return to use the Company’s services. Page 12 Restrictions imposed by the Company’s credit agreement and future debt agreements may limit its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s interest. The Company’s credit agreement currently, and future debt agreements may, restrict its ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends and make other distributions; · make restricted payments; · create liens; · merge, consolidate or acquire other businesses; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · make investments, loans and advances; · guarantee indebtedness or other obligations; · enter into operating leases or sale-leaseback, synthetic leases, or similar transactions; · make changes to its capital structure; and · engage in new lines of business unrelated to the Company’s current businesses. These terms may negatively impact the Company’s ability to finance future operations, implement its business strategy, fund its capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. In addition, the Company’s credit agreement requires, and future indebtedness may require, the Company to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Although the Company is currently in compliance with the financial ratios and does not plan on engaging in transactions that may cause the Company not to be in compliance with the ratios, its ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including the risks described in the other risk factors and elsewhere in this report. A breach of any restrictive covenant or the Company’s inability to comply with any required financial ratio could result in a default under the credit agreement. In the event of a default under the credit agreement, the lenders under the credit agreement may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing, including under the revolving credit facility. If the Company is unable to repay these borrowings when due, whether as a result of acceleration of the debt or otherwise, the lenders under the credit agreement will have the right to proceed against the collateral, which consists of substantially all of the Company’s assets, including real property and cash. If the indebtedness under the credit agreement were accelerated, the Company’s assets may be insufficient to repay this indebtedness in full under those circumstances. Any future credit agreements or other agreement relating to the Company’s indebtedness to which the Company may become a party may include the covenants described above and other restrictive covenants. The Company’s ability to pay any dividends on its common stock may be limited. The Company has not paid any dividends on its common stock since January 3, 1989. The Company’s current financing arrangements permit the Company to pay cash dividends on its common stock within limitations defined in its credit agreement. Any future determination to pay cash dividends on the Company’s common stock will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will be based upon the Company’s financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, plans for expansion, restrictions imposed by any financing arrangements, and any other factors that the board of directors determines are relevant. The Company’s ability to pay any cash or non-cash dividends on its common stock is subject to applicable provisions of state law and to the terms of its credit agreement. The Company’s credit agreement permits the Company to pay cash dividends on the Company’s common stock under defined circumstances. Moreover, under Delaware law, the Company is permitted to pay cash or accumulated dividends on the Company’s capital stock, including the Company’s common stock, only out of surplus, or if there is no surplus, out of the Company’s net profits for the fiscal year in which a dividend is declared or for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Surplus is defined as the excess of a company’s total assets over the sum of its total liabilities plus the par value of its outstanding capital stock. In order to pay dividends, the Company must have surplus or net profits equal to the full amount of the dividends at the time the dividend is declared. In determining the Company’s ability to pay dividends, Delaware law permits the Company’s board of directors to revalue the Company’s assets and liabilities from time to time to their fair market values in order to establish the amount of surplus. The Company cannot predict what the value of the Company’s assets or the amount of the Company’s liabilities will be in the future or what dividend restrictions will be contained in the Company’s credit facilities and, accordingly, the Company cannot assure the holders of the Company’s common stock that the Company will be able to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Page 13 The market price of the Company’s common stock could be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of the Company’s common stock could fluctuate widely in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include, among other things, fluctuations in commodities prices, actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, earnings releases by the Company, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, such as recessions. The Company may issue additional common stock or preferred stock, which could dilute shareholder interests. The Company’s certificate of incorporation, as amended, does not limit the issuance of additional common stock or the issuance of preferred stock. As of March 6, 2007, the Company has available for issuance 19,114,197 authorized but unissued shares of common stock and 1,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock that may be issued in additional series. Depending on the Company’s stock price for an average of 90 days ending June 30, 2007, up to 3.2 million shares may be issuable in connection with the acquisition of NBP. The Company has debt and interest payment requirements which could adversely affect its ability to operate its business. As discussed above, the Company has indebtedness that could have important consequences to the holders of the Company’s securities including the risks that: · the Company will be required to use $5.0 million of its cash flow from operations in fiscal 2007 for scheduled repayments of its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund the implementation of the Company’s business strategy, working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · the Company’s interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase because a portion of the Company’s debt bears interest based on market rates; · the Company’s level of indebtedness will increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · the Company’s debt service obligations could limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company’s business; · the Company’s level of indebtedness may place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and · a failure by the Company to make scheduled debt payments or to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in any agreement governing the Company’s indebtedness could result in an event of default and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Page 14 As of March 6, 2007, the Company had outstanding term loans of $47.5 million and outstanding revolving loans under the Company’s revolving credit agreement of $29.5 million. As of that date, eight letters of credit in the face amounts of $8.3 million, $3.3 million, $2.6 million, $2.3 million, $0.8 million, $0.7 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million for a total of $18.8 million in letters of credit, were issued and outstanding under the credit agreement. As of March 6, 2007, the Company is able to incur additional indebtedness, including approximately $76.7 million of additional debt available under the Company’s revolving credit agreement. All borrowings under the Company’s credit agreement are secured and senior to the Company’s securities, including its common stock. The Company could incur a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting that requires remediation. In fiscal 2005 the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of a material weakness in its internal control of financial reporting as discussed in detail in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2005 under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Although the Company has completed the remediation of the fiscal 2005 material weakness and this remediation was tested and determined to be effective in 2006, any future failures by the Company to maintain the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, including its internal control over financial reporting, could subject the Company to a loss of public confidence in its internal control over financial reporting and in the integrity of the Company’s public filings and financial statements and could harm the Company’s operating results or cause the Company to fail to timely meet its regulatory reporting obligations. Consequences of a material weakness such as those listed in the foregoing sentence could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company’s stock. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to the Company and its employees, facilities, information systems, security systems, suppliers and customers, which could significantly impact the Company’s net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, have contributed to economic instability in the U.S., and further acts of terrorism, bioterrorism, violence or war could affect the markets in which the Company operates, the Company’s business operations, the Company’s expectations and other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated in this report. The threat of terrorist attacks in the U.S. since September 11, 2001 continues to create many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the U.S. and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility, including the ongoing war in Iraq, may cause greater uncertainty and cause the Company’s business to suffer in ways that cannot currently be predicted. Events such as those referred to above could cause or contribute to a general decline in investment valuations, which in turn could reduce the market value of shareholder investments. In addition, terrorist attacks, particularly acts of bioterrorism, that directly impact the Company’s facilities or those of the Company’s suppliers or customers could have an impact on the Company’s sales, supply chain, production capability and costs and the Company’s ability to deliver its finished products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 