ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in the Company will be subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. Before making an investment decision in the Company, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this report. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If any of these events occurs, the trading price of the Company’s securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Proposed NBP Transaction The Company may be unable to successfully integrate National By-Products and achieve the benefits expected to result from the Transaction. The Company and National By-Products entered into the Purchase Agreement with the expectation that the Transaction would result in mutual benefits including, among other things, growing revenue, diversifying raw material supplies and creating a larger platform to grow the restaurant services segment. Achieving the benefits of the Transaction will depend in part on the integration of the Company’s and National By-Products’ operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner so as to minimize the risk that the Transaction will result in the loss of market opportunity or key employees or the diversion of the attention of management. If the Transaction closes, factors that could affect the Company’s ability to achieve these benefits include: • Difficulties in integrating personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by National By-Products into the Company; • The failure of National By-Products’ operations to perform in accordance with the Company’s expectations; • Any future goodwill impairment charges that the Company could incur with respect to the assets of National By-Products; • Failure to achieve anticipated synergies between the Company’s business units and the business units of National By-Products; • The loss of National By-Products’ raw material suppliers; and • The loss of any of the key employees of National By-Products. If National By-Products’ operations do not operate as the Company anticipates, it could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 10 The Company will succeed to substantially all of National By-Products’ liabilities. In addition, upon closing of the Transaction, the Company will succeed to substantially all of National By-Products’ liabilities. The Company may learn additional information about National By-Products’ business that adversely affects the Company, such as unknown or contingent liabilities, issues relating to internal controls over financial reporting and issues relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes Act”) or other applicable laws. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Transaction will be successful or will not, in fact, harm the Company’s business. Although $3.5 million of the cash consideration and $6.5 million of the stock consideration to be paid in the Transaction will be placed in an escrow fund at closing to satisfy, at least in part, any indemnification claims made by the Company against National By-Products with respect to certain liabilities, if National By-Products’ liabilities are greater than projected, or if there are obligations of National By-Products of which the Company is not aware at the time of completion of the Transaction and these liabilities and obligations cannot be covered by the escrow fund, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected and its stock price could decline. The Company may be unable to realize the expected cost savings from the Transaction. Even if the Company is able to integrate National By-Products’ operations successfully, the Company cannot assure its stockholders that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost savings or revenue enhancements that the Company expects to result from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the timeframe that the Company expects. The cost savings from the Transaction may be offset by costs incurred in integrating National By-Products’ operations, as well as by increases in other expenses, by operating losses or by problems with the Company’s or National By-Products’ businesses unrelated to the Transaction. Failure to complete the Transaction could negatively impact the stock price of the Company’s common stock and the future business and financial results of the Company because of, among other things, the market disruption that would occur as a result of uncertainties relating to a failure to complete the Transaction. Although the Company has agreed to make an effort to obtain stockholder approval of the proposals relating to the Transaction, there is no assurance that these proposals will be approved, and there is no assurance that Darling and National By-Products will satisfy the other conditions to the completion of the Transaction. If the Transaction is not completed for any reason, the Company will be subject to several risks, including the following: • Being required to pay National By-Products a termination fee of $4.23 million, which the Company is required to pay in certain circumstances relating to termination of the Purchase Agreement; and • Having had the focus of the Company’s management directed toward the Transaction and integration planning instead of the Company’s core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the Company. In addition, the Company would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Transaction. If the Transaction is not completed, the price of the Company’s common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of the Company’s common stock reflects a market assumption that the Transaction will be completed and that the related benefits and synergies will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the Transaction was not consummated due to an adverse change in the Company. In addition, the Company’s business may be harmed, and the price of the Company’s stock may decline as a result, to the extent that customers, suppliers and others believe that the Company cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the acquisition of the assets of National By-Products or otherwise remain uncertain about the Company’s future prospects in the absence of the Transaction. For example, customers and suppliers may delay, redirect or defer purchasing decisions, which could negatively affect the business and results of operations of the Company, regardless of whether the Transaction is ultimately completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of the Company may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company after the Transaction and choose to pursue other opportunities that could adversely affect the Company if the Transaction is not completed. This may adversely affect the ability of the Company to attract and retain key management and marketing and technical personnel, which could harm the Company’s businesses and results. Page 11 In addition, if the Transaction is not completed and the Company’s board of directors determines to seek another acquisition or business combination, there can be no assurance that a transaction creating stockholder value comparable to the value perceived to be created by the proposed acquisition of National By-Products will be available to the Company. If the Transaction is not completed, the Company cannot assure its stockholders that these risks will not materialize or materially adversely affect the business, financial results, financial condition and stock price of the Company. The Company may be required to pay a termination fee of $4.23 million if its board of directors withdraws or modifies its recommendation that the stockholders approve the Transaction. The Purchase Agreement requires the Company to pay a termination fee of $4.23 million if its board of directors withdraws or modifies its recommendation to the Company’s stockholders to vote in favor of the Purchase Agreement due to any reason other than a reason or reasons arising from a material adverse effect on National By-Products. The payment of this termination fee could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company expects substantial transaction, consolidation and integration costs related to the Transaction. If the Transaction is consummated, the Company will have incurred substantial expenses, including investment banking, legal, accounting and printing fees. It is expected that the Company will also incur significant consolidation and integration expenses that cannot be accurately estimated at this time. Actual transaction costs may substantially exceed estimates and, when combined with the expenses incurred in connection with the consolidation and integration of the companies, could have an adverse effect on the consolidated business, financial condition and operating results of the Company. Risks Related to General Business The Company’s results of operations and cash flow may be reduced by decreases in the market price of its products. The Company’s finished products are commodities, the prices of which are quoted on established commodity markets. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations will be affected by fluctuations in the prevailing market prices of these finished products. A significant decrease in the market price of the Company’s products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. The most competitive aspect of the Company’s business is the procurement of raw materials. The Company’s management believes that the most competitive aspect of the Company’s business is the procurement of raw materials rather than the sale of finished products. During the last ten plus years, pronounced consolidation within the meat packing industry has resulted in bigger and more efficient slaughtering operations, the majority of which utilize “captive” processors. Simultaneously, the number of small meat packers, which have historically been a dependable source of supply for non-captive processors, such as the Company, has decreased significantly. Although the total amount of slaughtering may be flat or only moderately increasing, the availability, quantity and quality of raw materials available to the independent processors from these sources have all decreased. A significant decrease in raw materials available could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The rendering and restaurant services industry is highly fragmented and very competitive. The Company competes with other rendering and restaurant services businesses and alternative methods of disposal of animal processing by-products and used restaurant cooking oil provided by trash haulers and waste management companies, as well as the alternative of illegal disposal. The Company charges a collection fee to offset a portion of the cost incurred in collecting raw material. To the extent suppliers of raw materials look to alternate methods of disposal, whether as a result of the Company’s collection fees being deemed too expensive or otherwise, the Company’s raw material supply will decrease and the Company’s collection fee revenues will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Page 12 The Company may incur material costs and liabilities in complying with government regulations. The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Material rules and regulations and the applicable agencies are: • The FDA, which regulates food and feed safety; • The USDA, including its agencies APHIS and FSIS, which regulates collection and production methods; • The EPA, which regulates air and water discharge requirements, as well as local and state agencies governing air and water discharge; • State Departments of Agriculture, which regulate animal by-product collection and transportation procedures and animal feed quality; • The USDOT, as well as local and state transportation agencies, which regulate the operation of the Company’s commercial vehicles; and • The SEC, which regulates securities and information required in annual and quarterly reports filed by publicly traded companies. These rules and regulations may influence the Company’s operating results at one or more facilities. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material costs and liabilities in connection with government regulations. The Company is highly dependent on natural gas and diesel fuel. The Company’s operations are highly dependent on the use of natural gas and diesel fuel. Energy prices for natural gas and diesel fuel are expected to remain high throughout 2006. The Company consumes significant volumes of natural gas to operate boilers in its plants to generate steam to heat raw material. High natural gas prices represent a significant cost of factory operation included in cost of sales. The Company also consumes significant volumes of diesel fuel to operate its fleet of tractors and trucks used to collect raw material. High diesel fuel prices represent a significant component of cost of collection expenses included in cost of sales. Though the Company will continue to manage these costs and attempt to minimize these expenses, prices remain relatively high in 2006 and represent an ongoing challenge to the Company’s operating results for future periods. A material increase in energy prices for natural gas and diesel fuel over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis," for a recent history of natural gas pricing. Darling’s business may be negatively impacted by a significant outbreak of avian influenza (“Bird Flu”) in the U.S. Avian influenza, or Bird Flu, a highly contagious disease that affects chickens and other poultry species, has recently spread throughout Asia to Europe at an unprecedented rate. Bird Flu is not a new disease, and while it does not currently exist in the U.S., it has occurred in this country twice within the past 25 years. The USDA has developed safeguards to protect the U.S. poultry industry from Bird Flu. Such safeguards are based on import restrictions, disease surveillance and a response plan for isolating and depopulating infected flocks if the disease is detected. Any significant outbreak of Bird Flu in the U.S. could have a negative impact on the Company’s business by reducing demand for meat and bone meal (MBM). The Company’s business may be affected by the impact of BSE. As discussed in Item 1, “Business – Regulations,” effective August 1997, the FDA promulgated the BSE Feed Rule in an effort to prevent the spread of BSE. Page 13 The following is a background to BSE in the U.S. and an overview of the regulations issued by the U.S. government in response thereto (for a more detailed discussion about the regulatory history discussed below, please see Item 1, “Business – Regulations”): • On December 23, 2003, a cow originally imported from Canada to the state of Washington was diagnosed to have BSE. The U.S. government subsequently banned downer animals and SRM from food and cosmetics. Cattle that are tested for BSE are also prohibited from entering the food or feed chains until the animals are verified to be negative for the disease. On January 26, 2004, the FDA announced intentions to modify its BSE Feed Rule. Subsequently, on July 14, 2004, the FDA and USDA jointly requested public comment on possible actions to further mitigate the risk of BSE. On September 30, 2004, the FDA published a guidance document indicating that, pursuant to Section 402(a)(5) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, animal feed and feed ingredients containing material from a BSE-positive animal will be considered adulterated and may not be fed to animals. • On June 24, 2005, a 12-year-old U.S.-born cow was diagnosed to have BSE. The animal was born more than four years before the FDA implemented the BSE Feed Rule in 1997. The cow was originally sampled at a pet food plant on November 18, 2004. Rapid screening tests for BSE were inconclusive and the carcass was incinerated so it did not enter the feed chain. Confirmation tests subsequently conducted by the USDA using immunohistochemistry (“IHC”) indicated the animal was negative for BSE. However, following an audit of the USDA’s enhanced BSE surveillance program by the Inspector General for USDA, the sample was retested on June 18, 2005 for BSE using the Western Blot technique, another internationally accepted confirmation test. The sample was positive for BSE using the Western Blot test. Because of the conflicting results obtained from the two test methods, the sample was sent to The Veterinary Laboratories Agency in Weybridge, England, where on June 24, 2005 it was confirmed to be positive for BSE. During the subsequent USDA investigation, 67 animals from the index herd were sacrificed, tested and found to be negative for BSE. In addition, the FDA investigation found the infected animal was fed in compliance to the BSE Feed Rule and did not receive MBM of ruminant animal origin after 1997, when the rule banning such practices went into effect. The FDA concluded the animal was most likely exposed to BSE before the BSE Feed Rule was promulgated. • On March 13, 2006, the USDA announced that another cow in the U.S. was diagnosed to have BSE. Samples were taken from this non-ambulatory animal on a farm in the state of Alabama by a veterinarian who euthanized the animal and sent the samples for testing. Initial rapid screening tests for BSE were inconclusive, but subsequent tests using the Western Blot technique were positive for BSE. This cow did not enter the animal or human food chain. The USDA is currently performing epidemiological work to determine the animal's precise age and origin. The Company's management will continue to monitor this situation. • A few major beef packing companies have begun selling SRM-free MBM for a premium to specific customers, primarily pet food manufacturers. • As a result of the first BSE case, many foreign countries banned imports of U.S.-produced beef and beef products, including MBM. Tallow exports were briefly banned, but this initial ban was relaxed to permit imports of U.S.-produced tallow with less than 0.15% impurities. As of February 2, 2006, many foreign markets closed to U.S. beef following the discovery of the first U.S. case of BSE, had been reopened, although some, such as Hong Kong, permit only boneless beef from U.S. cattle less than 30 months of age to be imported. Steps towards regaining the major former export markets of Japan, the largest, and South Korea, the second largest, had also been made. On December 12, 2005, Japan eased its ban by permitting meat from U.S. cattle less than 21 months of age to be imported. Two days later, South Korea’s agriculture ministry concluded that U.S. beef was not a health concern, which may be an important step towards lifting that country’s ban. On January 20, 2006, however, Japan suspended imports of U.S. beef because one shipment contained vertebral column, in violation of the terms of the agreement between the U.S. and Japan. The USDA immediately implemented protocols to prevent such violations in the future and began negotiations with Japan to lift the suspension. Except for Indonesia, export markets for MBM containing beef material produced in the U.S. have generally remained closed. Indonesia reopened its border to pork-free MBM in March 2005, but re-initiated its ban on U.S. MBM following the announcement that a second case of BSE had been found in the U.S. Page 14 • In May 2003, the USDA closed the border to live cattle and beef from Canada after a cow with BSE was discovered there. Boneless beef derived from Canadian cattle under 30 months of age was later approved for importation into the U.S. Canadian officials found two additional cases of BSE in December 2004 and January 2005. On January 4, 2005, the USDA published a Final Rule establishing criteria for classifying geographic regions as presenting minimal-risk of introducing BSE into the U.S. This same rulemaking placed Canada into the minimal-risk category based on an extensive investigation by USDA veterinarians. Based on this classification, USDA announced its intent to reopen the Canadian border to live cattle under 30 months of age and beef from such cattle beginning March 7, 2005. Imports of SRM-free beef from cattle over 30 months of age were also to be allowed, but this action was tabled by the Secretary of Agriculture on February 9, 2005 to allow time for further study. The Ranchers – Cattlemen Action Legal Fund – United Stock Growers of America (“R-CALF”) sued the USDA and, on March 2, 2005, was granted a temporary injunction by the U.S. District Court for the District of Montana, which prevented implementation of the Minimal Risk Rule and kept the border closed to Canadian cattle. On July 14, 2005, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the USDA and overturned the lower court’s temporary injunction, reopening the Canadian border to cattle less than 30 months of age. The first Canadian cattle were imported into the U.S. on July 18, 2005. The importation of SRM-free beef from Canadian cattle over 30 months of age continues to be banned. The following are recent developments with respect to the above background to BSE in the U.S. and regulatory history in response thereto: • On October 6, 2005, the FDA proposed to amend the agency’s regulations to prohibit certain cattle origin materials in the food or feed of all animals (the “Proposed Rule”). • Effective October 7, 2005, the FDA amended its July 14, 2004 interim final rule, which prohibited the use of SRM for human food and required that tallow intended for use in human food and cosmetics contain less than 0.15% impurities. • As of March 12, 2006, only two samples had tested positive for BSE out of more than 652,697 samples collected since June 1, 2004. Samples were collected from the highest risk cattle population, which includes non-ambulatory animals, dead cattle and healthy cattle. The occurrence of BSE in the U.S. may result in additional U.S. government regulations, finished product export restrictions by foreign governments, market price fluctuations for the Company’s finished products, reduced demand for beef and beef products by consumers, or increase the Company’s operating costs. Certain of the Company’s 24 operating facilities are highly dependent upon a few suppliers. Certain of the Company’s rendering facilities are highly dependent on one or a few suppliers. Should any of these suppliers choose alternate methods of disposal, cease their operations, have their operations interrupted by casualty, or otherwise cease using the Company’s collection services, such operating facilities may be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s success is dependent on the Company’s key personnel. The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon a number of key employees, including members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. The Company believes that its future success will depend in part on its ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled technical, managerial, marketing and sales personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining key personnel. The failure to hire and retain these personnel could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Page 15 In certain markets the Company is highly dependent upon the continued and uninterrupted operation of a single operating facility. In the majority of the Company’s markets, in the event of a casualty or condemnation involving a facility located in such market, the Company would utilize a nearby operating facility to continue to serve its customers in such market. In certain markets, however, the Company does not have alternate operating facilities. In the event of a casualty or condemnation, or an unscheduled shutdown, the Company may experience an interruption in its ability to service its customers and to procure raw materials. This may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations in such markets. In addition, after an operating facility affected by a casualty or condemnation is restored, there could be no assurance that customers who in the interim choose to use alternative disposal services would return to use the Company’s services. Restrictions imposed by the Company’s credit agreements and future debt agreements may limit its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s interest. The Company’s credit agreements currently, and future debt agreements may, restrict its ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • amend the terms of subordinated debt; • make restricted payments; • create liens; • merge, consolidate or acquire other businesses; • sell and otherwise dispose of assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make investments, loans, and advances; • guarantee indebtedness or other obligations; • enter into operating leases or sale-leaseback, synthetic leases, or similar transactions; • enter into hedge agreements; • make changes to its corporate name, fiscal year, capital structure and constituent documents; and • engage in new lines of business unrelated to the Company’s current businesses. These terms may impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to finance future operations, implement its business strategy, fund its capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. In addition, the Company’s credit agreements require, and future indebtedness may require, the Company to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Although the Company is currently in compliance with the financial ratios and does not plan on engaging in transactions that may cause the Company not to be in compliance with the ratios, its ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including the risks described in the other risk factors and elsewhere in this report. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the Company’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the credit agreements. In the event of a default under the credit agreements, the lenders under the credit agreements may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing, including under the revolving credit facility. If the Company is unable to repay these borrowings when due, the lenders under the credit agreements also will have the right to proceed against the collateral, which consists of substantially all of the Company’s assets, including real property and cash. If the indebtedness under the credit agreements were to be accelerated, the Company’s assets may be insufficient to repay this indebtedness in full under those circumstances. Any future credit agreements or other agreement relating to the Company’s indebtedness to which the Company may become a party may include the covenants described above and other restrictive covenants. Page 16 The Company’s ability to pay any dividends on its common stock may be limited. The Company has not declared or paid cash dividends on its common stock since January 3, 1989. The payment of any dividends by the Company on its common stock in the future will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will depend upon, among other things, future earnings, operations, capital requirements, the Company’s general financial condition, the general financial condition of the Company’s subsidiaries, limitations in its senior and subordinated credit facilities, and general business conditions. The Company’s ability to pay any cash or non-cash dividends on its common stock is subject to applicable provisions of state law and to the terms of its credit agreements. The Company’s credit agreements permit the Company to pay cash dividends on the Company’s common stock pursuant with the terms and conditions of the Company’s credit agreements. Moreover, under Delaware law, the Company is permitted to pay cash or accumulated dividends on the Company’s capital stock, including the Company’s common stock, only out of surplus, or if there is no surplus, out of the Company’s net profits for the fiscal year in which a dividend is declared or for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Surplus is defined as the excess of a company’s total assets over the sum of its total liabilities plus the par value of its outstanding capital stock. In order to pay dividends, the Company must have surplus or net profits equal to the full amount of the dividends at the time the dividend is declared. In determining the Company’s ability to pay dividends, Delaware law permits the Company’s board of directors to revalue the Company’s assets and liabilities from time to time to their fair market values in order to establish the amount of surplus. The Company cannot predict what the value of the Company’s assets or the amount of the Company’s liabilities will be in the future and, accordingly, the Company cannot assure the holders of the Company’s common stock that the Company will be able to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock could be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of the Company’s common stock could fluctuate widely in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include, among other things, actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, earnings releases by the Company, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, such as recessions. The Company may issue additional common stock or preferred stock, which could dilute shareholder interests. The Company’s certificate of incorporation, as amended, does not limit the issuance of additional common stock or additional series of preferred stock. As of March 7, 2006, the Company has available for issuance 35,554,570 authorized but unissued shares of common stock and 1,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock that may be issued in additional series. The Company will issue 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis on the date of closing of the proposed Transaction. As a result of the recapitalization, the Company’s ability to apply federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards will be limited. As a result of the recapitalization of the Company in May, 2002, the Company’s ability to use federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income that may be generated is limited. In particular, the Company has undergone a change in ownership under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of the recapitalization. By virtue of such a change in ownership, an annual limitation (generally equal to the pre-change value of the Company’s stock multiplied by the adjusted federal tax-exempt rate, which is set monthly by the Internal Revenue Service based on prevailing interest rates and equal to 5.01% for May 2002) will be applied to the use of those net operating loss carryforwards against future taxable income. Page 17 The Company has debt and interest payment requirements which could adversely affect its ability to operate its business. The Company has indebtedness that could have important consequences to the holders of the Company’s securities including the risks that: • the Company will be required to use $5.0 million of its cash flow from operations in Fiscal 2006 to pay its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund the implementation of the Company’s business strategy, working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • the Company’s interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase because a portion of the Company’s debt will bear interest based on market rates; • the Company’s level of indebtedness will increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • the Company’s debt service obligations could limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company’s business; • the Company’s level of indebtedness may place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and • a failure by the Company to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness could result in an event of default and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. As of March 7, 2006, the Company had outstanding senior subordinated debt of $35.0 million and senior secured term loans of $13.25 million and had no senior secured revolving loans outstanding under the Company’s credit agreements. As of such date, five letters of credit in the face amounts of $7.2 million, $4.1 million, $2.5 million, $0.8 million and $0.3 million, a total of $14.9 million in letters of credit, were issued and outstanding under the senior credit facility. As of March 7, 2006, the Company is able to incur additional indebtedness, including approximately $35.1 million of additional debt available under the Company’s revolving credit facility. Additional indebtedness will increase the risks described above. All borrowings under the Company’s credit agreement are secured and senior to the Company’s securities. For risks associated with the restrictive covenants in the Company’s debt instruments, see the Risk Factor entitled “Restrictions imposed by the Company’s credit agreements and future debt agreements may limit its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s interest.” If the acquisition of NBP is consummated, the Company expects to have outstanding senior bank debt of $100 million. Furthermore, the Company expects to have letters of credit of $20 million in the aggregate issued and outstanding under its senior credit facility. The Company will be able to incur additional indebtedness following the closing, including approximately $55 million of additional debt under this facility. The Company has a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting that requires remediation. As a result of management's evaluation of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, as required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2005, because of the material weakness discussed in Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures." This conclusion could subject the Company to a loss of public confidence in its internal control over financial reporting and in the integrity of the Company's financial statements. While the Company intends to undertake certain actions to remediate this material weakness, the Company will not know if these actions will be effective until it has tested its internal controls in future periods. In addition, any failure by the Company to improve and maintain its internal controls could harm the Company's operating results or cause the Company to fail to timely meet its regulatory reporting obligations. Any of these failures could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company's stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 18 