ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Business-Related Risks We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses. We were incorporated in 1990 and began our operations in 1991. We have funded our operations principally from funds raised in each of the initial public offering of our common stock in February 1994; through subsequent public and private offerings of our common stock and equity and debt securities convertible or exercisable into shares of our common stock; research contracts and supply contracts; funds received under research and development grants from the Government of Israel; and sales of products that we and our subsidiaries manufacture. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $143.0 million. In an effort to reduce operating expenses and maximize available resources, we intend to consolidate certain of our subsidiaries, shift personnel and reassign responsibilities. We have also substantially reduced certain senior employee salaries during 2005, cut directors’ fees, and taken a variety of other measures to limit spending and will continue to assess our internal processes to seek additional cost-structure improvements. Although we believe that such steps will help to reduce our operating expenses and maximize our available resources, there can be no assurance that we will ever be able to achieve or maintain profitability consistently or that our business will continue to exist. 32 Our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. Our bank and certificated indebtedness (short and long term) aggregated approximately $24.2 million principal amount as of December 31, 2005 (not including trade payables, other account payables and accrued severance pay), of which $13.3 million is due in 2006 (not including $2.0 million short-term bank credit). In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with significant indebtedness, including: · we must dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay principal and interest and, as a result, we may have less funds available for operations and other purposes; · it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all; · we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and · if we default under any of our existing debt instruments, including paying the outstanding principal when due, and if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and adversely affect our stock price. The agreements governing the terms of our debentures and notes contain numerous affirmative and negative covenants that limit the discretion of our management with respect to certain business matters and place restrictions on us, including obligations on our part to preserve and maintain our assets and restrictions on our ability to incur or guarantee debt, to merge with or sell our assets to another company, and to make significant capital expenditures without the consent of the debenture holders. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of such agreements may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. 33 Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in a default that could have material adverse consequences for us. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under such agreements which could result in an acceleration of the debentures and notes and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under the debentures, notes or other indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our future cash flow or assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future operating performance is subject to market conditions and business factors that are beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. We cannot assure you that the terms of our debt will allow for these alternative measures or that such measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, in the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or restructure or refinance our debt to meet our debt obligations, we cannot assure you as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly such transaction could be completed. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things: · our financial condition at the time; · restrictions in the agreements governing our other indebtedness; and · other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and our industry. We need significant amounts of capital to operate and grow our business and to pay our debt. We require substantial funds to operate our business, including to market our products and develop and market new products and to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due. To the extent that we are unable to fully fund our operations, including repaying our outstanding debt, through profitable sales of our products and services, we will need to seek additional funding, including through the issuance of equity or debt securities. In addition, based on our internal forecasts, the assumptions described under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” above, and subject to the other risk factors described herein, we believe that our present cash position and anticipated cash flows from operations, lines of credit and anticipated additions to paid-in capital should be sufficient to satisfy our current estimated cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, in the event our internal forecasts and other assumptions regarding our liquidity prove to be incorrect, we may need to seek additional funding. There can be no assurance that we will obtain any such additional financing in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the issuance by us of additional debt or equity is severely restricted by the terms of our existing indebtedness. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, stockholders may incur further dilution. If we incur additional indebtedness, we may be subject to affirmative and negative covenants that may restrict our ability to operate or finance our business. If additional funding is not secured, we will have to modify, reduce, defer or eliminate parts of our present and anticipated future commitments and/or programs. 34 The payment by us of our secured convertible notes in stock or the conversion of such notes by the holders could result in substantial numbers of additional shares being issued, with the number of such shares increasing if and to the extent our market price declines, diluting the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. In September 2005, we issued $17.5 million in secured convertible notes due March 31, 2008. The Notes are convertible at the option of the holders at a fixed conversion price of $1.00. We will repay the principal amount of the notes over the next two and one-half years, with the principal amount being amortized in twelve payments payable at our option in cash and/or stock, by requiring the holders to convert a portion of their Notes into shares of our common stock, provided certain conditions are met. The failure to meet such conditions could make us unable to pay our notes, causing us to default. If the price of our common stock is above $1.00, the holders of our notes will presumably convert their notes to stock when payments are due, or before, resulting in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We made the first two scheduled repayments of principal on our Notes in stock by requiring the holders to convert a portion of their Notes. In the event we continue to elect to make payments of principal on our convertible notes in stock by requiring the holders to convert a portion of their Notes, either because our cash position at the time makes it necessary or we otherwise deem it advisable, the price used to determine the number of shares to be issued on conversion will be calculated using an 8% discount to the average trading price of our common stock during 17 of the 20 consecutive trading days ending two days before the payment date. Accordingly, the lower the market price of our common stock at the time at which we make payments of principal in stock, the greater the number of shares we will be obliged to issue and the greater the dilution to our existing stockholders. In either case, the issuance of the additional shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We can require the holder of our Notes to convert a portion of their Notes into shares of our common stock at the time principal payments are due only if such shares are registered for resale and certain other conditions are met. Based on the current price of our stock, we do not have a sufficient number of shares of our stock registered for resale in order to continue requiring the holders to convert a portion of their Notes past a portion of the payment due May 31, 2006. We would accordingly have to file a registration statement with the SEC to register for resale more shares of our common stock in order to continue requiring conversion of our Notes upon principal payment becoming due. Any delay in the registration process, including through routine SEC review of our registration statement or other filings with the SEC, could result in our having to pay scheduled principal repayments on our Notes in cash, which would negatively impact our cash position and, if we do not have sufficient cash to make such payments in cash, could cause us to default on our Notes. 35 We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to secure our borrowings. Our debentures and notes are secured by a substantial portion of our assets. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, those assets would be available to the secured creditors to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditors, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and adversely affect our stock price. Any inability to continue to make use from time to time of our subsidiaries’ current working capital lines of credit could have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. From time to time our working capital needs are partially dependent on our subsidiaries’ lines of credit, which are themselves dependent upon our subsidiaries’ inventory and receivables. In the event that we are unable to continue to make use of our subsidiaries’ lines of credit for working capital on economically feasible terms, including because of any diminution in our subsidiaries’ inventory and receivables, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be successful in operating new businesses. Prior to the acquisitions of IES and MDT in 2002 and the acquisitions of FAAC and Epsilor in January 2004 and AoA in August 2004, our primary business was the marketing and sale of products based on primary and refuelable Zinc-Air fuel cell technology and advancements in battery technology for defense and security products and other military applications, electric vehicles and consumer electronics. As a result of our acquisitions, a substantial component of our business is the marketing and sale of high-tech multimedia and interactive training solutions and sophisticated lightweight materials and advanced engineering processes used to armor vehicles. These are relatively new businesses for us and our management group has limited experience operating these types of businesses. Although we have retained our acquired companies’ management personnel, we cannot assure that such personnel will continue to work for us or that we will be successful in managing these new businesses. If we are unable to successfully operate these new businesses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired. Our earnings will decline if we write off additional goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2004, we had recorded goodwill of $39.7 million. On January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill to be tested for impairment on adoption of the Statement, at least annually thereafter, and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired, rather than being amortized as previous accounting standards required. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of our reportable units with their carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for the reportable units. We performed the required annual impairment test of goodwill, based on our projections and using expected future discounted operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2005, we identified in AoA an impairment of goodwill in the amount of $11.8 million. 36 Our and our subsidiaries’ long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles are reviewed for impairment in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of the carrying amount of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. As of December 31, 2004, we identified an impairment of other intangible assets identified with the IES acquisition and, as a result, we recorded an impairment loss in the amount of $320,000. As of December 31, 2005, we identified an impairment of other intangible assets identified with the AoA acquisition and, as a result, we recorded an impairment loss in the amount of $499,000. We will continue to assess the fair value of our goodwill annually or earlier if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our goodwill below its carrying value. These events or circumstances would include a significant change in business climate, including a significant, sustained decline in an entity's market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors. If we determine that significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write off the impaired portion of goodwill. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results. Failure to comply with the earnout provisions of our acquisition agreements could have material adverse consequences for us. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in our acquisition agreements to make the earnout payments required under such agreements as ultimately determined in arbitration or litigation could result in actions for damages, a possible right of rescission on the part of the sellers, and the acceleration of debt under instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If we are unable to raise capital in order to pay the earnout provisions of our acquisition agreements, there can be no assurance that our future cash flow or assets would be sufficient to pay such obligations. In this connection, we note that we have received preliminary indications that there may be a dispute regarding the amount that we owe the former shareholders of FAAC Incorporated in respect of their earnout for 2005. Pursuant to the purchase agreement and a side letter, we are obligated to pay the former shareholders of FAAC an amount equal to “the net income realized by FAAC Incorporated from the Stryker Driver Simulator Program with the U.S. Army.” Subsequently, the U.S. Army added additional programs, all of which it classified generally as the “Common Driver Training Program” (CDT). The former shareholders of FAAC have indicated their belief that the 2005 earnout is due on the entire CDT program, which would equal to an additional amount of $3.5 million. We have taken the position that the 2005 earnout is due only on the Stryker part of the CDT program, relying on the specific language of the side letter, and that we therefore owe an additional amount of only $604,000. If this issue is ultimately decided in favor of the former shareholders of FAAC, the need to pay additional earnout sums to them could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition. 37 We may consider acquisitions in the future to grow our business, and such activity could subject us to various risks. We may consider acquiring companies that will complement our existing operations or provide us with an entry into markets we do not currently serve. Growth through acquisitions involves substantial risks, including the risk of improper valuation of the acquired business and the risk of inadequate integration. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be available, that we will be able to acquire or manage profitably such additional companies or that future acquisitions will produce returns that justify our investments in such companies. In addition, we may compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Furthermore, acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract the attention of our senior officers, increase our expenses, make it difficult to maintain our operational standards, controls and procedures and subject us to contingent and latent risks that are different, in nature and magnitude, than the risks we currently face. We may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations or additional debt or equity financings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate internal cash or obtain financing from external sources or that, if available, such financing will be on terms acceptable to us. The issuance of additional common stock to finance acquisitions may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financing may significantly increase our leverage and may involve restrictive covenants which limit our operations. We may not successfully integrate our prior acquisitions. In light of our acquisitions of IES, MDT, FAAC, Epsilor and AoA, our success will depend in part on our ability to manage the combined operations of these companies and to integrate the operations and personnel of these companies along with our other subsidiaries and divisions into a single organizational structure, and to replace those subsidiary managers who have left or may in the future leave our employ. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate the operations of our subsidiaries and divisions and our acquired businesses into a single organizational structure. Integration of these operations could also place additional pressures on our management as well as on our key technical resources. The failure to successfully manage this integration could have an adverse material effect on us. If we are successful in acquiring additional businesses, we may experience a period of rapid growth that could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and management information systems. Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operating results will be impaired. As a result of our acquisitions, we are currently experiencing a period of significant growth and development activity which has placed a significant strain on our personnel and resources. Our activity has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for both existing and new management personnel. Many of our management personnel have had limited or no experience in managing growing companies. We have sought to manage our current and anticipated growth through the recruitment of additional management and technical personnel and the implementation of internal systems and controls. However, our failure to manage growth effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. 38 A significant portion of our business is dependent on government contracts and reduction or reallocation of defense or law enforcement spending could reduce our revenues. Many of the customers of IES, FAAC and AoA to date have been in the public sector of the U.S., including the federal, state and local governments, and in the public sectors of a number of other countries, and most of MDT’s customers have been in the public sector in Israel, in particular the Ministry of Defense. Additionally, all of EFB’s sales to date of battery products for the military and defense sectors have been in the public sector in the United States. A significant decrease in the overall level or allocation of defense or law enforcement spending in the U.S. or other countries could reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Sales to public sector customers are subject to a multiplicity of detailed regulatory requirements and public policies as well as to changes in training and purchasing priorities. Contracts with public sector customers may be conditioned upon the continuing availability of public funds, which in turn depends upon lengthy and complex budgetary procedures, and may be subject to certain pricing constraints. Moreover, U.S. government contracts and those of many international government customers may generally be terminated for a variety of factors when it is in the best interests of the government and contractors may be suspended or debarred for misconduct at the discretion of the government. There can be no assurance that these factors or others unique to government contracts or the loss or suspension of necessary regulatory licenses will not reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. The U.S. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-compete for future contracts and orders. Our U.S. government contracts contain provisions that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. Government agencies routinely audit government contracts. These agencies review a contractor's performance on its contract, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If we are audited, we will not be reimbursed for any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract, while we would be required to refund any improper costs for which we had already been reimbursed. Therefore, an audit could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with United States government agencies. We could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. A governmental determination of impropriety or illegality, or an allegation of impropriety, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 39 We may be liable for penalties under a variety of procurement rules and regulations, and changes in government regulations could adversely impact our revenues, operating expenses and profitability. Our defense and commercial businesses must comply with and are affected by various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and our internal organization and operation of our businesses. Among the most significant regulations are the following: · the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts; · the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; and · the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts. These regulations affect how we and our customers do business and, in some instances, impose added costs on our businesses. Any changes in applicable laws could adversely affect the financial performance of the business affected by the changed regulations. With respect to U.S. government contracts, any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our operating margins may decline under our fixed-price contracts if we fail to estimate accurately the time and resources necessary to satisfy our obligations. Some of our contracts are fixed-price contracts under which we bear the risk of any cost overruns. Our profits are adversely affected if our costs under these contracts exceed the assumptions that we used in bidding for the contract. Often, we are required to fix the price for a contract before we finalize the project specifications, which increases the risk that we will mis-price these contracts. The complexity of many of our engagements makes accurately estimating our time and resources more difficult. In the event we fail to estimate our time and resources accurately, our expenses will increase and our profitability, if any, under such contracts will decrease. If we are unable to retain our contracts with the U.S. government and subcontracts under U.S. government prime contracts in the competitive rebidding process, our revenues may suffer. Upon expiration of a U.S. government contract or subcontract under a U.S. government prime contract, if the government customer requires further services of the type provided in the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. We cannot guarantee that we, or if we are a subcontractor that the prime contractor, will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. Further, all U.S. government contracts are subject to protest by competitors. The termination of several of our significant contracts or nonrenewal of several of our significant contracts, could result in significant revenue shortfalls. 40 The loss of, or a significant reduction in, U.S. military business would have a material adverse effect on us. U.S. military contracts account for a significant portion of our business. The U.S. military funds these contracts in annual increments. These contracts require subsequent authorization and appropriation that may not occur or that may be greater than or less than the total amount of the contract. Changes in the U.S. military’s budget, spending allocations and the timing of such spending could adversely affect our ability to receive future contracts. None of our contracts with the U.S. military has a minimum purchase commitment, and the U.S. military generally has the right to cancel its contracts unilaterally without prior notice. We manufacture for the U.S. aircraft and land vehicle armor systems, protective equipment for military personnel and other technologies used to protect soldiers in a variety of life-threatening or catastrophic situations, and batteries for communications devices. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, U.S. military business for our aircraft and land vehicle armor systems, other protective equipment, or batteries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. A reduction of U.S. force levels in Iraq may affect our results of operations. Since the invasion of Iraq by the U.S. and other forces in March 2003, we have received orders from the U.S. military for armoring of vehicles and military batteries. These orders are the result, in substantial part, of the particular combat situations encountered by the U.S. military in Iraq. We cannot be certain to what degree the U.S. military would continue placing orders for our products if the U.S. military were to reduce its force levels or withdraw completely from Iraq. A significant reduction in orders from the U.S. military could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. There are limited sources for some of our raw materials, which may significantly curtail our manufacturing operations. The raw materials that we use in manufacturing our armor products include Kevlar®, a patented product of E.I. du Pont de Nemours Co., Inc. We purchase Kevlar in the form of woven cloth from various independent weaving companies. In the event Du Pont and/or these independent weaving companies were to cease, for any reason, to produce or sell Kevlar to us, we might be unable to replace it with a material of like weight and strength, or at all. Thus, if our supply of Kevlar were materially reduced or cut off or if there were a material increase in the price of Kevlar, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected and our costs increased, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 41 Some of the components of our products pose potential safety risks which could create potential liability exposure for us. Some of the components of our products contain elements that are known to pose potential safety risks. In addition to these risks, there can be no assurance that accidents in our facilities will not occur. Any accident, whether occasioned by the use of all or any part of our products or technology or by our manufacturing operations, could adversely affect commercial acceptance of our products and could result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries. Any of these occurrences would materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In the event that our products, including the products manufactured by MDT and AoA, fail to perform as specified, users of these products may assert claims for substantial amounts. These claims could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that the amount of the general product liability insurance that we maintain will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that the present amount of insurance can be maintained at the present level of cost, or at all. Our fields of business are highly competitive. The competition to develop defense and security products and electric vehicle battery systems, and to obtain funding for the development of these products, is, and is expected to remain, intense. Our defense and security products compete with other manufacturers of specialized training systems, including Firearms Training Systems, Inc., a producer of interactive simulation systems designed to provide training in the handling and use of small and supporting arms. In addition, we compete with manufacturers and developers of armor for cars and vans, including O’Gara-Hess & Eisenhardt, a division of Armor Holdings, Inc. Our battery technology competes with other battery technologies, as well as other Zinc-Air technologies. The competition in this area of our business consists of development stage companies, major international companies and consortia of such companies, including battery manufacturers, automobile manufacturers, energy production and transportation companies, consumer goods companies and defense contractors. Various battery technologies are being considered for use in electric vehicles and defense and safety products by other manufacturers and developers, including the following: lead-acid, nickel-cadmium, nickel-iron, nickel-zinc, nickel-metal hydride, sodium-sulfur, sodium-nickel chloride, zinc-bromine, lithium-ion, lithium-polymer, lithium-iron sulfide, primary lithium, rechargeable alkaline and Zinc-Air. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources significantly greater than ours. If we are unable to compete successfully in each of our operating areas, especially in the defense and security products area of our business, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 42 Our business is dependent on proprietary rights that may be difficult to protect and could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and licensing arrangements. Litigation, or participation in administrative proceedings, may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could divert company resources and management attention to defend our rights, and this could harm us even if we were to be successful in the litigation. In the absence of patent protection, and despite our reliance upon our proprietary confidential information, our competitors may be able to use innovations similar to those used by us to design and manufacture products directly competitive with our products. In addition, no assurance can be given that others will not obtain patents that we will need to license or design around. To the extent any of our products are covered by third-party patents, we could need to acquire a license under such patents to develop and market our products. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, competition is intense, and there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In the event of patent litigation, we cannot assure you that a court would determine that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for those inventions. If existing or future third-party patents containing broad claims were upheld by the courts or if we were found to infringe third-party patents, we may not be able to obtain the required licenses from the holders of such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain these licenses could cause delays in the introduction of our products or necessitate costly attempts to design around such patents, or could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in patent infringement suits brought by others and in prosecuting patent infringement suits against infringers. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our customers, employees, consultants, and entities with which we maintain strategic relationships. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We are dependent on key personnel and our business would suffer if we fail to retain them. We are highly dependent on the president of our FAAC subsidiary and the general managers of our MDT and Epsilor subsidiaries, and the loss of the services of one or more of these persons could adversely affect us. We are especially dependent on the services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert S. Ehrlich, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Steven Esses. The loss of either Mr. Ehrlich or Mr. Esses could have a material adverse effect on us. We are party to an employment agreement with Mr. Ehrlich, which agreement expires at the end of 2007, and an employment agreement with Mr. Esses, which agreement expires at the end of 2006. We do not have key-man life insurance on either Mr. Ehrlich or Mr. Esses. 43 Payment of severance or retirement benefits earlier than anticipated could strain our cash flow. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert S. Ehrlich, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Steven Esses, both have employment agreements that provide for substantial severance payments and retirement benefits. We are required to fund a certain portion of these payments according to a predetermined schedule. Should Mr. Ehrlich or Mr. Esses leave our employ under circumstances entitling them to severance or retirement benefits, or become disabled or die, before we have funded these payments, the need to pay these severance or retirement benefits ahead of their anticipated schedule could put a strain on our cash flow and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There are risks involved with the international nature of our business. A significant portion of our sales are made to customers located outside the U.S., primarily in Europe and Asia. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, without taking account of revenues derived from discontinued operations, 21%, 19% and 42%, respectively, of our revenues, were derived from sales to customers located outside the U.S. We expect that our international customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. Sales to international customers may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations, foreign taxes, longer payment cycles and changes in import/export regulations and tariff rates. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been and in the future may be proposed in the U.S. and certain other countries. Any resulting changes in current tariff structures or other trade and monetary policies could adversely affect our sales to international customers. Our management has determined that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control report of management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management acknowledges its responsibility for internal controls over financial reporting and seeks to continually improve those controls. In addition, in order to achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we have been engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. We believe our process for documenting, evaluating and monitoring our internal control over financial reporting is consistent with the objectives of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 44 Our evaluation so far has identified a material weakness under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) related to our FAAC subsidiary and further described under “Management’s Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting,” included herein under “Item 9A, Controls and Procedures.” A material weakness is a condition in which the design or operation of one or more of the internal control components does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that misstatements caused by error or fraud in amounts that would be material in relation to the financial statements being audited may occur and not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. Our management has not yet completed its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. However, based on their evaluation procedures performed to date, management has concluded that internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2005. Because we have not yet completed our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our independent auditors have disclaimed any opinion on our internal controls, as stated in their report which is included herein. As a public company, we will have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken or will take to remediate any material weaknesses or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our rapid growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in material misstatements in our financial statements, harm our operating results, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Investors should not purchase our common stock with the expectation of receiving cash dividends. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, as a result, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Market-Related Risks The price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may change rapidly in the future. The following factors, among others, may cause significant volatility in our stock price: · announcements by us, our competitors or our customers; · the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by us or our competitors; · changes in the perceived ability to commercialize our technology compared to that of our competitors; · rumors relating to our competitors or us; 45 · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · the issuance of our securities, including warrants, in connection with financings and acquisitions; and · general market or economic conditions. If our shares were to be delisted, our stock price might decline further and we might be unable to raise additional capital. One of the continued listing standards for our stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market (both the Nasdaq National Market, on which our stock is currently listed, and the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market)) is the maintenance of a $1.00 bid price. Our stock price is currently below $1.00, and has been so since August 15, 2005. On March 28, 2006, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(a) and that our securities are, therefore, subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market at the opening of business on April 6, 2006. The letter also stated that we may request a review of the Staff Determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. We have requested a review of the Staff Determination by a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Although there can be no assurance that the Panel will grant our request for continued listing, the request for review has stayed the delisting of our stock from the Nasdaq National Market pending the Panel’s decision. If our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market, we might apply to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market if we then met the initial listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market (other than the $1.00 minimum bid standard). If we were to move to the Nasdaq Capital Market, current Nasdaq regulations would give us the opportunity to obtain an additional 180-day grace period (until September 22, 2006) if we meet certain net income, stockholders’ equity or market capitalization criteria; if at the end of that period we had not yet achieved compliance with the minimum bid price rule, we would be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Although we would have the opportunity to appeal any potential delisting, there can be no assurances that this appeal would be resolved favorably. As a result, there can be no assurance that our common stock will remain listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. While our stock would continue to trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board following any delisting from the Nasdaq, any such delisting of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common stock. Trading volume of over-the-counter bulletin board stocks has been historically lower and more volatile than stocks traded on an exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market. As a result, holders of our securities could find it more difficult to sell their securities. Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public equity markets. In addition, if we fail to maintain Nasdaq listing for our securities, and no other exclusion from the definition of a “penny stock” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is available, then any broker engaging in a transaction in our securities would be required to provide any customer with a risk disclosure document, disclosure of market quotations, if any, disclosure of the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotation and compensation information must be provided prior to effecting the transaction and must be contained on the customer’s confirmation. If brokers become subject to the “penny stock” rules when engaging in transactions in our securities, they would become less willing to engage in transactions, thereby making it more difficult for our stockholders to dispose of their shares. 46 Additionally, delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market would constitute an event of default under our debentures due in September 2006, which could result in acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing other indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, even if the delisting were not an event of default under those other instruments. A substantial number of our shares are available for sale in the public market and sales of those shares could adversely affect our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock into the public market, or the perception that those sales could occur, could adversely affect our stock price or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. As of March 15, 2006, we had 95,490,846 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Of these shares, most are freely transferable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933 or pursuant to effective resale registration statements, and a substantial portion of the remaining shares may be sold subject to the volume restrictions, manner-of-sale provisions and other conditions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Exercise of our warrants, options and convertible debt could adversely affect our stock price and will be dilutive. As of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding warrants to purchase a total of 22,061,463 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.43 per share, options to purchase a total of 8,651,235 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.79 per share, of which 8,329,272 were vested, at a weighted average exercise price of $0.76 per share, and outstanding debentures and notes convertible into a total of 20,203,246 shares of our common stock at a weighted average conversion price of $1.07 per share. Holders of our options, warrants and convertible debt will probably exercise or convert them only at a time when the price of our common stock is higher than their respective exercise or conversion prices. Accordingly, we may be required to issue shares of our common stock at a price substantially lower than the market price of our stock. This could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, if and when these shares are issued, the percentage of our common stock that existing stockholders own will be diluted. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions: · divide our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; · only permit removal of directors by stockholders “for cause,” and require the affirmative vote of at least 85% of the outstanding common stock to so remove; and · allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders. 47 The classification system of electing directors and the removal provision may tend to discourage a third-party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us and may maintain the incumbency of our board of directors, as the classification of the board of directors increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the directors. These provisions may have the effect of deferring hostile takeovers, delaying changes in our control or management, or may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions. The amendment of any of these provisions would require approval by holders of at least 85% of the outstanding common stock. Israel-Related Risks A significant portion of our operations takes place in Israel, and we could be adversely affected by the economic, political and military conditions in that region. The offices and facilities of three of our subsidiaries, EFL, MDT and Epsilor, are located in Israel (in Beit Shemesh, Lod and Dimona, respectively, all of which are within Israel’s pre-1967 borders). Most of our senior management is located at EFL’s facilities. Although we expect that most of our sales will be made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly affected by economic, political and military conditions in that country. Accordingly, any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Historically, Arab states have boycotted any direct trade with Israel and to varying degrees have imposed a secondary boycott on any company carrying on trade with or doing business in Israel. Although in October 1994, the states comprising the Gulf Cooperation Council (Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Dubai, Bahrain and Oman) announced that they would no longer adhere to the secondary boycott against Israel, and Israel has entered into certain agreements with Egypt, Jordan, the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has not entered into any peace arrangement with Syria or Lebanon. Moreover, since September 2000, there has been a significant deterioration in Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian Authority, and a significant increase in terror and violence. Israel recently withdrew unilaterally from the Gaza Strip and certain areas in northern Samaria. It is unclear what the long-term effects of such disengagement plan will be. Efforts to resolve the problem have failed to result in an agreeable solution. Continued hostilities between the Palestinian community and Israel and any failure to settle the conflict may have a material adverse effect on our business and us. Moreover, the current political and security situation in the region has already had an adverse effect on the economy of Israel, which in turn may have an adverse effect on us. 48 Service of process and enforcement of civil liabilities on us and our officers may be difficult to obtain. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and will be subject to service of process in the United States. However, approximately 22% of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, two of our directors and most of our executive officers are residents of Israel and a portion of the assets of such directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in original actions instituted in Israel. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce or effect service of process upon these directors and executive officers or to judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. laws against our assets, as well as the assets of these directors and executive officers. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the U.S. or elsewhere may be unenforceable in Israel. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Israeli NIS may negatively affect our earnings. Although a substantial majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs, including personnel and facilities-related expenses, is incurred in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). Inflation in Israel will have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel, unless it is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS relative to the dollar. In 2005, the inflation adjusted NIS depreciated against the dollar. Some of our agreements are governed by Israeli law. Israeli law governs some of our agreements, such as our lease agreements on our subsidiaries’ premises in Israel, and the agreements pursuant to which we purchased IES, MDT and Epsilor. While Israeli law differs in certain respects from American law, we do not believe that these differences materially adversely affect our rights or remedies under these agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 