Item 1A. Risk Factors As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition. We have a history of losses, we could continue to incur losses in the future, and we may never achieve sustained profitability. We had net losses applicable to common stockholders of $27.1 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. Although we were profitable during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, we had net losses applicable to common stockholders of $28.2 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and our accumulated deficit as of that date was $80.4 million. Our future results will be affected by our ability to increase our Subway and non-Subway revenue in spite of price increases, reduce our product warranty charges and manage costs related to the residential product launch. We can provide no assurance that our future operations will be profitable. We have depended, and will continue to depend, upon one customer for a material portion of our revenues, and if such customer significantly reduces its purchases of our ovens, our revenues would decrease and our financial performance would decline. In March 2004, we were chosen to be the exclusive supplier of speed cook ovens to Subway franchise restaurants worldwide. Although the roll-out to existing Subway franchisees is substantially completed, we expect that sales to Subway franchisees will continue to constitute a significant portion of our revenues in the future as new Subway restaurants receive our ovens and existing restaurants purchase additional ovens. Our agreement with the Subway system does not specify a number of ovens that Subway franchisees must purchase in the future. If Subway franchisees discontinue or significantly reduce their purchases of our ovens, our revenues would decrease and our financial performance would decline. 10 We continue to expand rapidly, and we may be unable to manage our growth. We intend to continue the rapid growth of our business, but we cannot be sure that we will successfully manage this growth. Continued growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. There also will be additional demands on our sales, marketing and information systems and on our administrative infrastructure as we develop and offer new and additional products and enter new markets. We cannot assure you that our operating and financial control systems, administrative infrastructure, outsourced and internal production capacity, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business may be harmed. We have a long sales cycle that requires an extended sales effort and is difficult to predict. A customer's decision to purchase our commercial ovens often involves a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process, and selling our commercial ovens often requires us to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our speed cook technology and services. In addition, the integration of our ovens into a customer's business is often a company-wide initiative, which can include the development of new menus and food products and the launch of new marketing and advertising campaigns. These factors have made the sales cycles for our commercial ovens long, ranging from a few months to several years, making it difficult for us to predict when sales to potential customers may occur. We may not be able to disclose the identity of our customers or potential customers and their oven orders. We may not be able to disclose the identity of our existing and potential customers or any information about their plans for our products. Companies in the competitive restaurant and food service industry are secretive about their plans for new food concepts and expansion of menu items, and they usually do not approve of vendors disclosing information about equipment tests, orders or purchases that directly or indirectly expose their plans. Many also require that we enter into non-disclosure agreements prohibiting us from disclosing such information. We have an obligation to our stockholders not to risk the loss of new business because of our premature disclosure of the plans of our customers or potential customers against their wishes or in violation of our contractual commitments. Our inability to disclose this information could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Because the market for our commercial ovens is an emerging sector of the commercial cooking equipment market, we will be required to undertake significant marketing efforts to achieve market acceptance, the success of which we cannot predict. The market for our commercial ovens is a nascent sector of the commercial cooking equipment market. As is typical with new products based on innovative technologies, demand for and market acceptance of our commercial ovens are subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving market acceptance for our commercial ovens will require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to increase public awareness of our brand and our products, and to educate potential customers as to the distinctive characteristics and benefits of our products and our technologies. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts will result in significant market acceptance of our commercial ovens. The success of our planned entry into the residential oven market is subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business enterprise, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this endeavor. An important part of our growth strategy includes the research, development and introduction of residential speed cook ovens. Historically, our expertise has been in the speed cook sector of the commercial cooking equipment market, and although we have developed technologies that currently are being licensed for use in certain existing residential ovens, we have no prior experience in the production, marketing and sale of products in the residential oven market. Our entry into the residential oven market will be subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, and acceptance of our speed cook products in this market will depend upon our ability to, among other things, successfully: · refine and adapt our technologies for residential application; · develop residential ovens based on our technologies at a competitive price point; · create and develop demand for and market acceptance of our technologies in the residential oven market; · market, promote and distribute our speed cook ovens, and establish public awareness of our brand, in the residential oven market; · compete with the numerous, well-established manufacturers and suppliers of conventional and speed cook ovens already in the residential oven market; and · establish and maintain sufficient internal research and development, marketing, sales, production and customer service infrastructures to support these efforts. Although this new line of business is closely related to our commercial oven business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter this market. We expect to devote considerable resources and expenditures to this new line of business, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully commercialize and bring to market our residential ovens. If we cannot successfully bring to market our residential ovens, our financial performance may suffer and our business may be harmed. 11 We are subject to risks associated with developing products and technologies, which could delay product introductions and result in significant expenditures. We continually seek to refine and improve upon the physical attributes, utility and performance of our existing ovens and to develop new ovens. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with new product and technological development, including unanticipated technical or other problems and the possible insufficiency of funds allocated for the completion of development of a particular product or technology. The occurrence of any of these risks could cause a substantial change in the design, delay in the development, or abandonment of new technologies and products. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will develop oven technologies superior to our current technologies, successfully bring to market new commercial ovens, or develop and successfully commercialize a residential line of ovens. Additionally, there can be no assurance that, if developed, new technologies or products will meet our current price or performance objectives, be developed on a timely basis or prove to be as effective as products based on other technologies. The inability to successfully complete the development of a product, or a determination by us, for financial, technical or other reasons, not to complete development of a product, particularly in instances in which we have made significant expenditures, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to keep up with evolving technology, our products may become obsolete. The market for our products and technologies is characterized by evolving technology. We will not be able to compete successfully unless we continually enhance and improve our existing products, complete development and introduce to the market in a timely manner our proposed products, adapt our products to the needs and standards of our customers and potential customers, and continue to improve operating efficiencies and lower manufacturing costs. Moreover, competitors may develop technologies or products that render our products obsolete or less marketable. We may not be able to compete effectively because our target markets are highly competitive, and some of our competitors have greater financial or technological resources. Both the speed cook sector of the commercial cooking equipment market and the residential oven market are characterized by intense competition. We compete, and will in the future compete, with numerous well-established manufacturers and suppliers of commercial and residential ovens, including manufacturers and suppliers whose ovens have been developed under licenses of our proprietary speed cook technologies. We also are aware of others who are developing, and in some cases have introduced, new ovens based on other speed cook methods and technologies. There can be no assurance that other companies do not have or are not currently developing functionally equivalent products, or that functionally equivalent products will not become available in the near future. In addition, there can be no assurance that the products that we develop will be functionally superior to, or gain more commercial acceptance than, products currently being produced by third parties who have exclusive licenses to some of our proprietary technologies. Most of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, and have established reputations relating to product design, development, manufacture, brand recognition, marketing and service of cooking equipment. The use of outsourced manufacturing subjects us to potential disruptions in product supply and other potential adverse effects. We do not maintain supply agreements with third parties for raw materials or components. Instead, we purchase these items pursuant to purchase orders in the ordinary course of business. We attempt to maintain multiple sources of supply for these items, but some of the specially-designed components used in our ovens are sourced from a limited number of suppliers. We may utilize contract manufacturers to fabricate components and assemble our residential oven, and we may outsource fabrication and assembly of ovens, parts or components to foreign operations. We are and will continue to be dependent on the ability of these third parties to, among other things, meet our design, performance and quality specifications, provide components and produce finished ovens in a timely manner. Events beyond our control could have an adverse effect on the cost or availability of raw materials and components. Shipment delays, unexpected price increases or changes in payment terms from our suppliers of components could impact our ability to secure necessary components, and could adversely affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to produce finished ovens for shipment to our customers. Additionally, if any of our contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its operations, or negatively changes the payment or other terms under which it agrees to assemble ovens for us, we may be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely and cost-effective basis, product shipments to our customers could be delayed and we may experience an increase in our component part inventory levels. The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, competitive position and reputation. Outsourcing operations to foreign countries also subjects us to various risks inherent in foreign manufacturing, including increased credit risks, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, acts of terrorism and international political, regulatory and economic developments. Any of these risks could increase our costs of goods, interrupt our operations or have a significant impact on our foreign manufacturer's ability to deliver our products. 12 We may need additional capital to finance growth and to execute our business plan, and we may be unable to obtain additional capital under terms acceptable to us or at all. Our capital requirements in connection with the execution of our business plan, including our marketing and sales efforts, continuing commercial and residential product development and working capital needs, are expected to be significant for the foreseeable future. In addition, unanticipated events could cause our revenues to be lower and our costs to be higher than expected, resulting in the need for additional capital. Historically, cash generated from our operations was not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, and we relied upon proceeds from sales of our securities to fund our operations. We currently do not have a credit facility with a bank or other lending institution. While we believe that our present capital provides us the ability to execute our business plan, we cannot make assurances in this regard. Further, if we do not have sufficient funds available, or are unable to obtain capital necessary to meet our future requirements, we may be unable to fund the research, development and sale of ovens, and we may have to delay or abandon one or more aspects of our business plan, any of which could harm our business. Our financial performance is subject to significant fluctuations. Our financial performance is subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, including: · our lengthy, unpredictable sales cycle for commercial ovens; · the gain or loss of significant customers; · unexpected delays in new product introductions; · level of market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products; · unexpected changes in the levels of our operating expenses including increased research and development and sales and marketing expenses associated with new product introductions; · competitive product offerings and pricing actions; and · general economic conditions. The occurrence of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our operating results and the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and difficult to predict and may continue to be volatile and difficult to predict. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock will be affected by, among other things: · variations in quarterly operating results; · potential initiation and subsequent changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets; · changes in accounting standards, policies or interpretations; · other developments affecting us, our industry, clients or competitors; and · the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us. Any of these factors could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market, make it difficult to predict the market price for our common stock and cause the value of your investment to decline.We rely heavily on our senior management team and the expertise of management personnel. Our operations will depend for the foreseeable future on the efforts of our executive officers and our other senior management to execute our business plan, and any of our executive officers or senior management can terminate his relationship with us at any time. Our business and prospects could be adversely affected if these persons, in significant numbers, do not perform their key roles as expected, or terminate their relationships with us, and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Many of our senior executive officers have limited prior experience in our industry. Many of our senior executive officers have limited experience in operating a business in our industry, and there is no guarantee that these persons will fully develop the necessary expertise to successfully execute our business plan. The failure of these senior executive officers to fully develop this expertise would have a significant impact on our ability to compete in this industry and to operate our business effectively. Our Chairman controls a significant interest in our common stock and may cause the shares to be voted in ways with which you may disagree. As of March 1, 2006, OvenWorks, LLLP owns, of record, 7,203,156 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 25%. of our outstanding common stock. The sole general partner of OvenWorks is Oven Management, Inc. Richard E. Perlman, our Chairman, is the sole stockholder, sole director and President of Oven Management, Inc. and also is a limited partner of OvenWorks. OvenWorks will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control of us even if beneficial to our stockholders. The exercise of options or warrants will result in dilution to you. At March 1, 2006, 3.5 million shares of our common stock were subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options, and 163,000 shares of our common stock were subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. Your ownership will be diluted by the exercise of any of these outstanding stock options and warrants. We may not realize the potential benefit of our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property. There can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection which existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that any patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents, pending patent applications, registered trademarks or service marks, pending trademark applications or trademarks will be upheld if challenged or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. There can be no assurance that we will have all of the resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. 13 We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how and employ various methods to protect the concepts, ideas and documentation of our proprietary technologies. However, those methods may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts, ideas and documentation. If our products or intellectual property violate the rights of others, we may become liable for damages. If any of our existing or future products, trademarks, service marks or other proprietary rights infringe patents, trademarks, service marks or proprietary rights of others, including others to which we have exclusively licensed some of our proprietary cooking technologies, we could become liable for damages and may be required to modify the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of our products. There can be no assurance that we would be able to make any of these modifications or changes in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all. The failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to manufacture and market our products. We are involved in legal proceedings which would adversely affect our operating results and future operations if the outcomes were unfavorable. We are engaged in arbitration proceedings with Maytag Corporation relating to certain sales of our ovens manufactured by Maytag. Maytag has claimed damages in excess of $1.3 million, and we have counterclaims of a similar amount. Maytag has also alleged that we publicized false and misleading statements about Maytag's use of our intellectual property in its residential appliances in a January 2002 press release and in certain other unidentified statements, and has asserted claims in litigation that we caused false advertising with respect to Maytag's goods and services, that we intentionally interfered with Maytag's prospective business, that we defamed Maytag and that we unfairly competed with Maytag. The outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain, and an unfavorable outcome would have an adverse effect on our operating results and future operations. Our business subjects us to significant regulatory compliance burdens. We are subject to regulations administered by various federal, state, local and international authorities, including those administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the European Community Council and the Japan Ministry of International Trade. These regulations impose significant compliance burdens on us and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such regulations. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may subject us to civil and criminal sanctions and penalties. Moreover, new legislation and regulations, as well as revisions to existing laws and regulations, at the federal, state, local and international levels may be proposed in the future affecting the foodservice equipment industry. These proposals could affect our operations, result in material capital expenditures, affect the marketability of our existing products and technologies and/or limit opportunities for us with respect to modifications of our existing products or with respect to our new or proposed products or technologies. In addition, expansion of our operations into new markets may require us to comply with additional regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with additional applicable laws and regulations without excessive cost or business interruption, and failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on us. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or an inability to acquire insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We are engaged in a business which could expose us to various claims, including claims by foodservice operators and their staffs, as well as by consumers, for personal injury or property damage due to design or manufacturing defects or otherwise. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms and our historical claims experience. However, a material product liability or other claim could be brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or could not be covered by our then-existing insurance. Additionally, a material product liability or other claim could be brought against us that damages the reputation of our technologies or products in the market. Any of these types of claims could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. An increase in warranty expenses could adversely affect our financial performance. We offer purchasers of our ovens a one-year limited warranty covering workmanship and materials, during which period we or an authorized service representative will make repairs and replace parts that have become defective in the course of normal use. We estimate and record our future warranty costs based upon past experience. Future warranty expenses on the one-year warranty, however, may exceed our warranty reserves, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 14 Item 