ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAny investment in the Company will be subject to risks inherent to the Company's business. Before making an investment decision in the Company, you should carefully consider the specific risks described below together with all of the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this report before making an investment decision. Each of the risks described below could adversely and materially affect the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. The risks and uncertainties the Company has described are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or those the Company currently deems immaterial may also affect business or operations of the Company. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, the Company's business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If any of these events occurs, the trading price of the Company's securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and the Company's actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" in this filing.The prices of the Company's products are subject to significant volatility associated with commodities markets.The Company's finished products are, with certain exceptions, commodities, the prices of which are quoted on, or derived from prices quoted on, established commodity markets. Accordingly, the Company's results of operations will be affected by fluctuations in the prevailing market prices of these finished products or of other commodities that may be substituted for the Company's products by the Company's customers. Historically, market prices for commodity grains and food stocks have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including changes in U.S. government farm support programs or energy policies, changes in international agricultural trading policies, impact of disease outbreaks on protein sources and the potential effect on supply and demand as well as weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons. While the Company seeks to mitigate the risk associated with price declines, including through the use of formula pricing tied to commodity prices for a substantial portion of the Company's raw materials, a significant decrease in the market price of the Company's products or of other commodities that may be substituted for the Company's products would have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flow.In addition, increases in the market prices of raw materials would require the Company to seek increased selling prices for the Company's premium, value-added and branded products to avoid margin deterioration. There can be no assurance as to whether the Company could implement future selling price increases in response to increases in the market prices of raw materials or how any such price increases would affect future sales volumes to the Company's customers. The Company's results of operations would be adversely affected in the future by this volatility.Page 11The Company's business is dependent on the procurement of raw materials, which is the most competitive aspect of the Company business.Management believes that the most competitive aspect of the Company's business is the procurement of raw materials rather than the sale of finished products. Pronounced consolidation within the meat packing industry has resulted in bigger and more efficient slaughtering operations, the majority of which utilize "captive" renderers. Simultaneously, the number of small meat processors, which have historically been a dependable source of supply for non-captive renderers, such as the Company, has decreased significantly. The slaughter rates in the meat processing industry are subject to decline due to economic conditions, and as a result, during such periods of decline, the availability, quantity and quality of raw materials available to the independent renderers decreases. In addition, the Company has seen an increase in the use of restaurant grease in the production of biodiesel, which has increased competition for the collection of used cooking oil and contributed to an increase in the frequency of theft of used cooking oil. Furthermore, the general performance of the U.S. economy, declining U.S. consumer confidence and the inability of consumers and companies to obtain credit due to the current lack of liquidity in the financial markets has had a negative impact on the Company's raw material volume, such as through the forced closure of certain of the Company’s raw material suppliers. A significant decrease in available raw materials or a closure of a raw material supplier could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations, including the carrying value of the Company's assets.The rendering industry is highly fragmented and both the rendering and bakery waste industries are very competitive. The Company competes with other rendering businesses and alternative methods of disposal of animal processing by-products, bakery waste processing and used cooking oil provided by trash haulers, waste management companies and biodiesel companies, as well as the alternative of illegal disposal. See Item 1, "Competition." In addition, restaurants experience theft of used cooking oil, the frequency of which has increased with the rise in value of used cooking oil. Depending on market conditions, the Company either charges a collection fee to offset a portion of the cost incurred in collecting raw material or will pay for the raw material. To the extent suppliers of raw materials look to alternate methods of disposal, whether as a result of the Company's collection fees being deemed too expensive or otherwise, the Company's raw material supply will decrease and the Company’s collection fee revenues will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.A majority of Darling's volume of rendering raw materials, including all of its significant poultry accounts, and all of its bakery feed raw materials are acquired on a "formula basis," which in most cases is set forth in contracts with the Company's suppliers, generally with multi-year terms. These "formulas" allow the Company to manage the risk associated with decreases in commodity prices by adjusting the Company's costs of materials based on changes in the price of the Company's finished products, while also permitting the Company, in certain cases, to benefit from increases in commodity prices. The formulas provided in these contracts are reviewed and modified both during the term of, and in connection with the renewal of, the contracts to maintain an acceptable level of sharing between the Company and the Company's suppliers of the costs and benefits from movements in commodity prices. Changes to these formulas or the inability to renew such contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company is highly dependent on natural gas and diesel fuel.The Company's operations are highly dependent on the use of natural gas and diesel fuel. The Company consumes significant volumes of natural gas to operate boilers in the Company's plants, which generate steam to heat raw material. Natural gas prices represent a significant cost of facility operations included in cost of sales. The Company also consumes significant volumes of diesel fuel to operate the Company’s fleet of tractors and trucks used to collect raw material. Diesel fuel prices represent a significant component of cost of collection expenses included in cost of sales. Prices for both natural gas and diesel fuel can be volatile and therefore represent an ongoing challenge to the Company's operating results. Although the Company continually manages these costs and hedges the Company's exposure to changes in fuel prices through the Company's formula pricing and derivatives, a material increase in energy prices for natural gas and/or diesel fuel over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.A significant percentage of the Company's revenue is attributable to a limited number of suppliers and customers.In fiscal 2011, Darling's top ten customers for finished products accounted for approximately 28% of product sales. In addition, its top ten raw material suppliers accounted for approximately 25% of its raw material supply in the same period. A disruption to, termination of, or modifications to the Company's relationships with any of the Company's significant suppliers or customers could cause the Company's businesses to suffer significant financial losses and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.Page 12Certain of the Company's operating facilities are highly dependent upon a single or a few suppliers.Certain of the Company's rendering facilities are highly dependent on one or a few suppliers. Should any of these suppliers choose alternate methods of disposal, cease their operations, have their operations interrupted by casualty or otherwise cease using the Company’s collection services, these operating facilities may be materially and adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.The renewable diesel joint venture with Valero will subject the Company to a number of risks.The Company announced on January 21, 2011 that a wholly-owned subsidiary of Darling entered into the JV Agreement with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valero to form the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture is owned 50% / 50% with Valero and was formed to design, engineer, construct and operate the Facility, which will be capable of producing approximately 9,300 barrels per day of renewable diesel fuel and certain other co-products, to be located adjacent to Valero’s refinery in Norco, Louisiana. The Joint Venture is in the process of constructing the Facility under an engineering, procurement and construction contract ("EPC Contract") that is intended to fix the Joint Venture's maximum economic exposure for the cost of the Facility. On May 31, 2011, the Joint Venture and Diamond Green Diesel LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Joint Venture ("Opco"), entered into (i) a facility agreement (the "Facility Agreement") with Diamond Alternative Energy, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valero (the "Lender"), and (ii) a loan agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with the Lender, which will provide the Joint Venture with a 14 year multiple advance term loan facility of approximately $221,300,000 (the "JV Loan") to support the design, engineering and construction of the Facility, which is now under construction. The Facility Agreement and the Loan Agreement prohibit the Lender from assigning all or any portion of the Facility Agreement or the Loan Agreement to unaffiliated third parties. Opco has also pledged substantially all of its assets to the Lender, and the Joint Venture has pledged all of Opco's equity interests to the Lender, until the JV Loan has been paid in full and the JV Loan has terminated in accordance with its terms.Pursuant to sponsor support agreements executed in connection with the Facility Agreement and the Loan Agreement, each of the Company and Valero are committed to contributing approximately $93.2 million of the estimated aggregate costs of approximately $407.7 million for the completion of the Facility. The Company is also required to pay for 50% of any cost overruns incurred in connection with the construction of the Facility, including relating to any project scope changes. As of December 31, 2011 the Company has an investment in the Joint Venture of approximately $21.7 million included on the consolidated balance sheet.There is no guarantee that the Facility will be constructed in a timely manner, and any unexpected significant scope changes to the project could require investment of additional significant financial resources by the Company which may require the Company to obtain additional financing. Further, while the two principal technologies to be licensed for the Joint Venture are established technologies, their use together in the manner currently contemplated for the Joint Venture is innovative and has not been previously employed. If the Facility is completed, there is no guarantee that the Joint Venture will be profitable or allow the Company to make a return on the Company’s investment, and the Company may lose the Company's entire investment.The Joint Venture is dependent on governmental energy policies and programs, such as the National Renewable Fuel Standard Program ("RFS2"), which positively impact the demand for and price of renewable diesel. Any changes to, a failure to enforce or a discontinuation of any of these programs could have a material adverse affect on the Joint Venture. See "Risk Factors—The Company's business may be affected by energy policies of U.S. and foreign governments." Similarly, the Joint Venture is subject to the risk that new or changing technologies may be developed that could meet demand for renewable diesel under governmental mandates in a more efficient or less costly manner than the technologies to be used by the Joint Venture, which could negatively affect the price of renewable diesel and have a material adverse affect on the Joint Venture.In addition, the commencement and operation of a joint venture such as this involve a number of risks that could harm the Company’s business and result in the Joint Venture not performing as expected, such as:•problems integrating or developing operations, personnel, technologies or products;•the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes;•the failure of the end product to perform as anticipated;•unforeseen engineering and environmental issues;•the inaccuracy of the Company's assumptions about the timing and amount of anticipated costs and revenues;Page 13•the diversion of management time and resources;•obtaining permits and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements;•insufficient experience with the technologies and markets involved;•difficulties in establishing relationships with suppliers and end user customers;•unanticipated cost overruns;•risks commonly associated with the start-up of "greenfield" projects;•performance below expected levels of output or efficiency;•reliance on Valero and its adjacent refinery facility for many services and processes;•subsequent impairment of the acquired assets, including intangible assets; and•being bought out and not realizing the benefits of the Joint Venture.If any of these risks described above were to materialize and the operations of the Joint Venture were significantly disrupted, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company's business may be affected by energy policies of U.S. and foreign governments.Pursuant to the requirements established by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 on February 3, 2010, the EPA finalized regulations for RFS2. The regulation mandates the domestic use of biomass-based diesel (biodiesel or renewable diesel) of 1.0 billion gallons in 2012. Beyond 2012 the regulation requires a minimum of 1.0 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel for each year through 2022 and such amount is subject to increase by the EPA Administrator. On June 20, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule which would require 1.28 billion gallons for the calendar year 2013. Biomass-based diesel also qualifies to fulfill the non-specified portion of the advanced bio-fuel requirement. In order to qualify as a "renewable fuel" each type of fuel from each type of feed stock is required to lower greenhouse gas emissions ("GHG") by levels specified in the regulation. The EPA has determined that bio-fuels (either biodiesel or renewable diesel) produced from waste oils, fats and greases result in an 86% reduction in GHG emissions, exceeding the 50% requirement established by the regulation. Prices for the Company's finished products may be impacted by worldwide government policies relating to renewable fuels and greenhouse gas emissions. Programs like RFS2 and tax credits for bio-fuels both in the United States and abroad may positively impact the demand for the Company's finished products. Accordingly, changes to, a failure to enforce or discontinuing any of these programs could have a negative impact on the Company's business and results of operations.The Company may incur material costs and liabilities in complying with government regulations.The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Material rules and regulations and the applicable agencies include: •The FDA, which regulates food and feed safety;•The USDA, including its agencies APHIS and FSIS, which regulates collection and production methods;•The EPA, which regulates air and water discharge requirements, as well as local and state agencies, which monitor air and water discharges;•State Departments of Agriculture, which regulate animal by-product collection and transportation procedures and animal feed quality;•The USDOT, as well as local and state transportation agencies, which regulate the operation of the Company’s commercial vehicles;•The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which is the main federal agency charged with the enforcement of safety and health legislation; and•The SEC, which regulates securities and information required in annual and quarterly reports filed by publicly traded companies.Page 14The applicable rules and regulations promulgated by these agencies may influence the Company's operating results at one or more facilities. Furthermore, the loss of or failure to obtain necessary federal, state or local permits and registrations at one or more of the Company's facilities could halt or curtail operations at impacted facilities, which could result in impairment charges related to the affected facility and otherwise adversely affect the Company's operating results. The Company's failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations, including obtaining or maintaining required operating certificates or permits, could subject the Company to: (i) administrative penalties and injunctive relief; (ii) civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and product recalls; and (iii) adverse publicity. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material costs and liabilities in connection with these rules and regulations.Seasonal factors and weather can impact the quality and volume of raw materials that the Company processes.The quantity of raw materials available to the Company is impacted by seasonal factors, including holidays, when raw material volume declines, and cold weather, which can impact the collection of raw material. In addition, warm weather can adversely affect the quality of raw material processed and the Company's yield on production due to more rapidly degrading raw materials. The quality and volume of finished product that the Company is able to produce could be negatively impacted by unseasonable weather or unexpected declines in the volume of raw material available during holidays, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.Downturns and volatility in global economies and commodity and credit markets could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.The Company's results of operations are materially affected by the state of the global economies and conditions in the credit, commodities and stock markets. Among other things, the Company may be adversely impacted if the Company's domestic and international customers and suppliers are not able to access sufficient capital to continue to operate their businesses or to operate them at prior levels. A decline in consumer confidence or changing patterns in the availability and use of disposable income by consumers can negatively affect both the Company's suppliers and customers. Declining discretionary consumer spending or the loss or impairment of a meaningful number of the Company's suppliers or customers could lead to a dislocation in either raw material availability or customer demand. Tightened credit supply could negatively affect the Company's customers' ability to pay for the Company’s products on a timely basis or at all and could result in a requirement for additional bad debt reserves. Although many of the Company's customer contracts are formula-based, continued volatility in the commodities markets could negatively impact the Company's revenues and overall profits. Counterparty risk on finished product sales can also impact revenue and operating profits when customers either are unable to obtain credit or refuse to take delivery of finished product due to market price declines. The Company's business may be affected by the impact of BSE and other food safety issues.Effective August 1997, the FDA promulgated a rule prohibiting the use of mammalian proteins, with some exceptions, in feeds for cattle, sheep and other ruminant animals (referred to herein as the "BSE Feed Rule") to prevent further spread of BSE, commonly referred to as "mad cow disease." Detection of the first case of BSE in the United States in December 2003 resulted in additional U.S. government regulations, finished product export restrictions by foreign governments, market price fluctuations for the Company's finished products and reduced demand for beef and beef products by consumers. Even though the export markets for U.S. beef have rebounded and 2011 export volumes may exceed pre-BSE levels, most export markets remain closed to MBM derived from U.S. beef. Continued concern about BSE in the United States may result in additional regulatory and market related challenges that may affect the Company's operations or increase the Company's operating costs.With respect to BSE in the United States, on October 26, 2009, the FDA began enforcing new regulations intended to further reduce the risk of spreading BSE ("Enhanced BSE Rule"). These new regulations included amending the BSE Feed Rule to prohibit the use of tallow having more than 0.15% insoluble impurities in feed for cattle or other ruminant animals. In addition, the FDA implemented rules that prohibit the use of brain and spinal cord material from cattle aged 30 months and older or the carcasses of such cattle, if the brain and spinal cord are not removed, in the feed or food for all animals ("Prohibited Cattle Materials"). Tallow derived from Prohibited Cattle Materials that also contains more than 0.15% insoluble impurities cannot be fed to any animal. The Company has followed the Enhanced BSE Rule since it was first published in 2008 and has made capital expenditures and implemented new processes and procedures to be compliant with the Enhanced BSE Rule at all of the Company's operations. Based on the foregoing, while the Company acknowledges that unanticipated issues may arise as the FDA continues to implement the Enhanced BSE Rule and conducts compliance inspections, the Company does not currently anticipate that the Enhanced BSE Rule will have a significant impact on the Company operations or financial performance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company can provide no assurance that unanticipated costs and/or reductions in raw material volumes related toPage 15the Company's compliance with the Enhanced BSE Rule will not negatively impact the Company’s operations and financial performance.With respect to human food, pet food and animal feed safety, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the "FDAAA") was signed into law on September 27, 2007 as a result of Congressional concern for pet and livestock food safety, following the discovery in March 2007 of pet and livestock food that contained adulterated imported ingredients. The FDAAA directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the FDA to promulgate significant new requirements for the pet food and animal feed industries. As a prerequisite to new requirements specified by the FDAAA, the FDA was directed to establish a Reportable Food Registry, which was implemented on September 8, 2009. On June 11, 2009, the FDA issued "Guidance for Industry: Questions and Answers Regarding the Reportable Food Registry as Established by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007: Draft Guidance." Stakeholder comments and questions about the Reportable Food Registry that were submitted to the docket or during public meetings were incorporated into a second draft guidance ("RFR Draft Guidance"), which was published on September 8, 2009. In the RFR Draft Guidance, the FDA defined a reportable food, which the manufacturer or distributor would be required to report in the Reportable Food Registry, to include materials used as ingredients in animal feeds and pet foods, if there is reasonable probability that the use of such materials will cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. The FDA issued a second version of its RFR Draft Guidance in May 2010 without finalizing it. On July 27, 2010, the FDA released "Compliance Policy guide Sec. 690.800, Salmonella in Animal Feed, Draft Guidance" ("Draft CPG"), which describes differing criteria to determine whether pet food and farmed animal feeds that are contaminated with salmonella will be considered to be adulterated under section 402(a)(1) of the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act. According to the Draft CPG, any finished pet food contaminated with any species of salmonella will be considered adulterated because such feeds have direct human contact. Finished animal feeds intended for pigs, poultry and other farmed animals, however, will be considered to be adulterated only if the feed is contaminated with a species of salmonella that is considered to be pathogenic for the animal species that the feed is intended for. The impact of the FDAAA and implementation of the Reportable Food Registry on the Company, if any, will not be clear until the FDA finalizes its RFR Draft Guidance and the Draft CPG, neither of which were finalized as of the date of this report. The Company believes that it has adequate procedures in place to assure that its finished products are safe to use in animal feed and pet food and the Company does not currently anticipate that the FDAAA will have a significant impact on the Company’s operations or financial performance. Any pathogen, such as salmonella, that is correctly or incorrectly associated with the Company’s finished products could have a negative impact on the demands for the Company’s finished products.In addition, on January 4, 2011, President Barack Obama signed the Food Safety Modernization Act ("FSMA") into law. As enacted, the FSMA gave the FDA new authorities, which became effective immediately. Included among these is mandatory recall authority for adulterated foods that are likely to cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals, if the responsible party fails to cease distribution and recall such adulterated foods voluntarily. The FSMA further instructed the FDA to amend existing regulations that define its administrative detention authority so that the criteria needed for detaining human or animal food are lowered. Prior to the FSMA becoming law, FDA had authority to order that an article of food be detained only if there was credible evidence or information indicating that the article of food presented a threat of serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. On May 5, 2011, FDA issued an interim final rule amending its administrative detention authority and lowering both the level of proof and the degree of risk required for detaining an article of food. This interim final rule, which became effective on July 3, 2011, gives the FDA authority to detain an article of food if there is reason to believe the food is adulterated or misbranded. In addition to amending existing regulations, the FSMA requires the FDA to develop new regulations that, among other provisions, place additional registration requirements on food and feed producing firms; require registered facilities to perform hazard analyses and to implement preventive plans to control those hazards identified to be reasonably likely to occur; increase the length of time that records are required to be retained; and regulate the sanitary transportation of food. Such new food safety provisions will require new FDA rule-making. The Company has followed the FSMA throughout its legislative history and implemented hazard prevention controls and other procedures that the Company believes will be needed to comply with the FSMA. Such rule-making could, among other things, require the Company to amend certain of the Company’s other operational policies and procedures. While unforeseen issues and requirements may arise as the FDA promulgates the new regulations provided for by the FSMA, the Company does not anticipate that the costs of compliance with the FSMA will materially impact the Company’s business or operations.The Company’s business may be negatively impacted by the occurrence of any disease correctly or incorrectly linked to animals.The emergence of diseases such as 2009 H1N1 flu (initially know as "Swine Flu") and H5N1 avian influenza ("Bird Flu") that are in or associated with animals and have the potential to also threaten humans has created concern that such diseases could spread and cause a global pandemic. Even though such a pandemic has not occurred, governments may be pressured to address these concerns and prohibit imports of animals, meat and animal by-products from countries or regions where the disease is detected. The occurrence of Swine Flu, Bird Flu or any other disease in the United States that is correctly or incorrectly linked Page 16to animals and has a negative impact on meat or poultry consumption or animal production could have a material negative impact on the volume of raw materials available to the Company or the demand for the Company's finished products.If the Company or the Company's customers are the subject of product liability claims or product recalls, the Company may incur significant and unexpected costs and the Company's business reputation could be adversely affected.The Company and its customers for whom the Company manufactures products may be exposed to product liability claims and adverse public relations if consumption or use of the Company's products is alleged to cause injury or illness to humans or animals. In addition, the Company and its customers may be subject to product recalls resulting from developments relating to the discovery of unauthorized adulterations to food additives. The Company's insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities the Company incurs in connection with product liability claims or product recalls. The Company may not be able to maintain its existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product liability judgment against the Company or against one of its customers for whom the Company manufactures products, or the Company's or its customer's agreement to settle a product liability claim or a product recall, could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating income and cash flow. In addition, even if product liability claims against the Company or its customers for whom the Company manufactures products are not successful or are not fully pursued, defending these claims would likely be costly and time-consuming and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating the Company's business and may result in adverse publicity.Product liability claims, product recalls or any other events that cause consumers to no longer associate the Company's brands or those of the Company's customers for whom the Company manufactures products with high quality and safety, may hurt the value of the Company's and the Company's customers' brands and lead to decreased demand for the Company's products. In addition, as a result of any such claims against the Company or product recalls, the Company may be exposed to claims by the Company's customers for damage to their reputations and brands. Product liability claims and product recalls may also lead to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies of the Company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's brands, business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company's operations are subject to various laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and to health and safety, and the Company could incur significant costs to comply with these requirements or be subject to sanctions or held liable for environmental damages.The Company's operations subject the Company to various and increasingly stringent federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety requirements, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the management, storage and disposal of materials in connection with the Company’s facilities and the Company’s handling of hazardous materials and wastes, such as gasoline and diesel fuel used by the Company's trucking fleet and operations. Failure to comply with these requirements could have significant consequences, including penalties, claims for personal injury and property and natural resource damages, and negative publicity. The Company's operations require the control of air emissions and odor and the treatment and discharge of wastewater to municipal sewer systems and the environment. The Company operates boilers at many of the Company's facilities and stores wastewater in lagoons or discharges it to publicly owned wastewater treatment systems, surface waters or through land application. The Company operates and maintains a vehicle fleet to transport products to and from customer locations. The Company has incurred significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with environmental requirements, including for the upgrade of wastewater treatment facilities, and will continue to incur such costs in the future. The Company could be responsible for the remediation of environmental contamination and may be subject to associated liabilities and claims for personal injury and property and natural resource damages. The Company owns or operates numerous properties, has been in business for many years and has acquired and disposed of properties and businesses. During that time, the Company or other owners or operators may have generated or disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous or may have polluted the soil, surface water or groundwater at or around the Company's facilities. Under some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and similar state statutes, responsibility for the cost of cleanup of a contaminated site can be imposed upon any current or former site owners and operators, or upon any party that sent waste to the site, regardless of the lawfulness of the activities that led to the contamination. There can be no assurance that the Company will not face extensive costs or penalties that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Company has been named as a third-party defendant in a lawsuit pending in the Tierra/Maxus Litigation (as defined herein) and has received notice from the EPA with respect to alleged contamination in the Lower Passaic River area. Future developments, such as more aggressive enforcement policies, new laws or discoveries of unknown conditions, may also require expenditures that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition.In addition, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHG, are likely to impact the Company's operations. The EPA’s recent rule establishing mandatory GHG reporting for certain activities may apply to some of the Company's Page 17facilities if the Company exceeds the applicable thresholds. The EPA has also announced a finding relating to GHG emissions that may result in promulgation of GHG air quality standards. Legislation to regulate GHG emissions has been proposed in the U.S. Congress and a growing number of states are taking action to require reductions in GHG emissions. Future GHG emissions limits may require the Company to incur additional capital and operational expenditures. EPA regulations limiting exhaust emissions also became more restrictive in 2010, and on October 25, 2010, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the EPA proposed new regulations that would govern fuel efficiency and GHG emissions beginning in 2014. Compliance with such regulations could increase the cost of new fleet vehicles and increase the Company's operating expenses. Compliance with future GHG regulations may require expenditures that could affect the Company’s results of operations.The Company's success is dependent on its key personnel.The Company's success depends to a significant extent upon a number of key employees, including members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and prospects. The Company believes that its future success will depend in part on its ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled technical, managerial, marketing and sales personnel. Competition for these types of skilled personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining key personnel. The failure to hire and retain these personnel could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.In certain markets the Company is highly dependent upon a single operating facility and various events beyond the Company's control can cause interruption in the operation of the Company's facilities, which could adversely affect its business in those markets. The Company's facilities are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and other permitting requirements, depending on their locations. Periodically, these permits may be reviewed and subject to amendment or withdrawal. Applications for an extension or renewal of various permits may be subject to challenge by community and environmental groups and others. In the event of a casualty, condemnation, work stoppage, permitting withdrawal or delay or other unscheduled shutdown involving one of the Company's facilities, in a majority of the Company's markets it would utilize a nearby operating facility to continue to serve its customers. In certain markets, however, the Company does not have alternate operating facilities. In the event of a casualty, condemnation, work stoppage, permitting withdrawal or delay or other unscheduled shutdown in these markets, the Company may experience an interruption in its ability to service its customers and to procure raw materials. This may materially and adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations in those markets. In addition, after an operating facility affected by a casualty, condemnation, work stoppage, permitting withdrawal or delay or other unscheduled shutdown is restored, there could be no assurance that customers who in the interim choose to use alternative disposal services would return to use the Company's services.The Company's management is required to continue to devote a significant amount of time and effort in integrating Darling's business and Griffin’s business.The acquisition of Griffin is the largest and most significant acquisition Darling has undertaken. Although significant progress has been made in the integration of the two businesses, the Company's management will continue to be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of Darling's business and the business of Griffin, which may decrease the time it will have to develop new services or strategies.The Company may not realize all of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that the Company anticipated from the Merger.The benefits that the Company expects to achieve as a result of the Merger will depend, in part, on the Company's ability to realize the remaining anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies. The Company's success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the continued integration of Darling's and Griffin's businesses and operations and the adoption of the Company's respective best practices. Even if the Company is able to fully integrate Darling's and Griffin's businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that the Company currently expects from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. For example, the combined company may be unable to completely eliminate duplicative costs. Moreover, the combined company may incur substantial expenses in connection with the continued integration of Darling's and Griffin's businesses and operations. While the Company anticipates that certain additional expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from the Merger may be offset by unanticipated costs incurred or unanticipated delays in integrating the companies.Page 18The Company's level of indebtedness as a result of the Merger could adversely affect the Company's ability to operate its business, react to changes in the economy or its industry and make payments on its indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had total indebtedness of approximately $280.0 million, consisting of $250.0 million of 8.5% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Senior Unsecured Notes") and $30.0 million of revolving and term loan borrowings and undrawn commitments available for additional borrowings under the Company's senior secured credit facilities (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"), entered into on December 17, 2010. The Company's level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: •a portion of the Company's cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on the Company's indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including investment in the Company's operations, future business opportunities or strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•it may limit the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates;•the Company may be more highly leveraged than some of its competitors, which may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage;•it could make the Company more vulnerable to downturns in general economic or industry conditions or in the Company's business; and•it may limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing the Company's indebtedness, the Company's ability in the future to obtain financing, the Company's ability to refinance any of its indebtedness, or the Company's ability to dispose of assets or borrow money for its working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements and general corporate or other purposes on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Despite the Company's existing indebtedness, the Company may still incur more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above.The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing the Company's indebtedness, including, without limitation, the agreements governing the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities, will limit the Company's ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent that the Company incurs additional indebtedness, the risks associated with the Company's leverage described above, including the Company's possible inability to service its debt, would increase.If the Company experiences difficulties or a significant disruption in the Company's information systems or if the Company fails to implement new systems and software successfully, the Company's business could be materially adversely affected.The Company depends on information systems throughout the Company's business to collect and process data that is critical to the Company's operations and accurate SEC reporting. Among other things, these information systems process incoming customer orders and outgoing supplier orders, manage inventory, collect raw materials and distribute products, process and bill shipments to and collect cash from the Company's customers, respond to customer and supplier inquiries, contribute to the Company's overall internal control processes, maintain records of the Company's property, plant and equipment, and record and pay amounts due vendors and other creditors. If the Company were to experience a disruption in its information systems that involve interactions with suppliers and customers, it could result in a loss of raw material supplies, sales and customers and/or increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any such disruption could adversely affect the Company's ability to meet its financial reporting obligations. The Company may also encounter difficulties in developing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems. Such difficulties may lead to significant expenses orlosses due to disruption in business operations, loss of sales or profits, or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages, and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.In order to enhance its technology, customer service, and business processes, the Company recently began a multi-year project to replace its existing work management, financial, and supply chain software applications with a new suite of systems including a company-wide enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system. The implementation process involves a number of risks Page 19that may adversely hinder the Company's business operations and/or affect its financial condition and results of operations, if not implemented successfully. The new ERP system will replace multiple legacy systems, and successful implementation is expected to enhance and provide additional benefits to a variety of important business functions, including customer care and billing, procurement and accounts payable, operational plant logistics, management reporting, and external financial reporting. The ERP implementation is a complex and time-consuming project that involves substantial expenditures for implementation consultants, system hardware, software, and implementation activities, as well as the transformation of business and financial processes. As with any large software project, there are many factors that may materially affect the schedule, cost, and execution/implementation of this project. Those factors include, among others: problems during the design, implementation, and testing phases; system delays and/or malfunctions; the risk that suppliers and contractors will not perform as required under their contracts; the diversion of management's attention from daily operations to the project; re-works due to changes in business processes or financial reporting standards; and other events beyond the Company's control. These types of issues could disrupt the Company's business operations and/or its ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of its financial results and and/or complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Accordingly, material deviations from the project plan or unsuccessful execution of the plan may adversely affect the Company's financial position and results of operations.The Company could incur a material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that would require remediation.The Company's disclosure controls and procedures were deemed to be effective in fiscal 2011. However, any future failures to maintain the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures, including the Company's internal control over financial reporting, could subject the Company to a loss of public confidence in its internal control over financial reporting and in the integrity of its public filings and financial statements and could harm the Company’s operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its regulatory reporting obligations in a timely manner. The ongoing integration of the operations of Griffin following the Merger could create additional risks to the Company's disclosure controls, including the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting.An impairment in the carrying value of the Company's goodwill or other intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.As of December 31, 2011, the Company has approximately $381.4 million of goodwill. The Company is required to annually test goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, impairment of goodwill must be tested whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the Company is required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires the Company to make significant estimates about its future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations or changes in competition. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of the Company's future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill, which may result in an impairment charge. For example, a deterioration in demand for, or increases in costs for producing a supplier's principal products could lead to a reduction in the supplier's output of raw materials, thus impacting the fair value of a plant processing that raw material. The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill become impaired, there may be a materially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.The Company may be subject to work stoppages at its operating facilities which could cause interruptions in the manufacturing of the Company's products.While the Company has no national or multi-plant union contracts, approximately 25% of the Company's employees are covered by multiple collective bargaining agreements. Labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized and higher ongoing labor costs. Darling's collective bargaining agreements expire at varying times over the next five years. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate the terms of any expiring or expired agreement in a manner acceptable to the Company. If the Company's unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, the Company could experience a significant disruption of its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.Page 20Litigation may materially adversely affect the Company's businesses, financial condition and results of operations.The Company is a party to several lawsuits, claims and loss contingencies arising in the ordinary course of our business, including assertions by certain regulatory and governmental agencies related to permitting requirements and air, wastewater and storm water discharges from the Company's processing facilities. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant and any future litigation may divert the attention of management away from the Company's strategic objectives. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease customer confidence in the Company’s business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.Certain multi-employer defined benefit pension plans to which the Company contributes are under-funded. The Company participates in various multi-employer pension plans which provide defined benefits to certain employees covered by labor contracts. These plans are not administered by the Company and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. Based upon the most currently available information, certain of these multi-employer plans are under-funded due partially to a decline in the value of the assets supporting these plans, a reduction in the number of actively participating members for whom employer contributions are required and the level of benefits provided by the plans. In addition, the Pension Protection Act, which was enacted in August 2006 and went into effect in January 2008, requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their under-funding. As a result, the Company's required contributions to these plans may increase in the future. Furthermore, under current law, a termination of, the Company’s voluntary withdrawal from or a mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan to which the Company contributes would require the Company to make payments to the plan for the Company’s proportionate share of such multi-employer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Also, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers not contributing their allocable share of the minimum funding to the plan. For more information on the mutliemployer pension plans in which the Company participates see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Requirements to pay increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity and results of operations.If the number or severity of claims for which the Company is self-insured increases, if the Company is required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than the Company's recorded liabilities, if the Company's insurance premiums increase, or if the Company is unable to obtain insurance at acceptable rates or at all, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.The Company's workers compensation, auto and general liability policies contain significant deductibles or self-insured retentions. The Company develops bi-yearly and records quarterly an estimate of the Company's projected insurance-related liabilities. The Company estimates the liabilities associated with the risks retained by the Company, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a degree of variability. If the number or severity of claims for which the Company is self-insured increases, or the Company is required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than the Company’s original assessments, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the future the Company's insurance premiums may increase and the Company may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and require significant management resources.The Company regularly reviews potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, services or products. However, the Company may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Even if the Company identifies appropriate acquisition candidates, the Company may be unable to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business, service or product into the Company's existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may require significant management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of the Company's business. Moreover, the Company may Page 21not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or strategic alliance and such transactions may not generate anticipated financial results. Future acquisitions could also require the Company to incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could harm the Company's business.Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to the Company and the Company's employees, facilities, information systems, security systems, suppliers and customers, which could significantly impact the Company's net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition.Terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, have contributed to economic instability in the United States, and further acts of terrorism, bioterrorism, violence or war could affect the markets in which the Company operates, the Company's business operations, the Company's expectations and other forward-looking statements contained in this report. The threat of terrorist attacks in the United States since September 11, 2001 continues to create many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the U.S. and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility, including the ongoing war in Afghanistan and other conflicts in the Middle East, may cause greater uncertainty and cause the Company's business to suffer in ways that cannot currently be predicted. Events such as those referred to above could cause or contribute to a general decline in investment valuations. In addition, terrorist attacks, particularly acts of bioterrorism, that directly impact the Company's facilities or those of the Company's suppliers or customers could have an impact on the Company's sales, supply chain, production capability and costs and the Company's ability to deliver its finished products.The Company's products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause the Company to incur unexpected costs or prevent the Company from selling its products.The Company maintains valuable trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade names, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property, and considers the Company's intellectual property to be of material value. The Company has in the past and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of its business, including claims of alleged infringement of patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by the Company or its customers. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of the Company's management. Moreover, should the Company be found liable for infringement, the Company may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Any of the foregoing could cause the Company to incur significant costs and prevent the Company from manufacturing or selling its products.The recently enacted legislation on healthcare reform and proposed amendments thereto could impact the healthcare benefits required to be provided by the Company and cause the Company's compensation costs to increase, potentially reducing the Company's net income and adversely affecting its cash flows.The recently enacted healthcare legislation and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions that could materially impact the Company's future healthcare costs. While the legislation's ultimate impact is not yet known, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase the Company's compensation costs, which would reduce the Company's net income and adversely affect its cash flows.The market value of the Company's common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.The market price of the Company's common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of the Company's common stock could fluctuate widely in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Numerous factors, including many over which the Company has no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. In addition to the risk factors discussed in this report, the price and volume volatility of the Company’s common stock may be affected by:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in commodities prices;•actual or anticipated variations in the Company's results;•the Company's earnings releases and financial performance;•changes in financial estimates or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts;•the ongoing integration of Griffin's business and the Company's ability to realize growth opportunities as a result therefrom;Page 22•the Company's access to financial and capital markets to refinance its debt or its ability to repay indebtedness under the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities and its Senior Unsecured Notes;•the effect of future sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock;•performance of the Company's joint venture investments;•the Company’s dividend policy;•market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets;•investor perceptions of the Company and the industry and markets in which it operates;•domestic and foreign governmental legislation or regulation;•currency and exchange rate fluctuations; and•domestic and global general economic and market conditions, such as recessions or significant inflation.Future sales of the Company's common stock or the issuance of other equity may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.The Company is not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock, or common stock issued as restricted shares or through the exercise of options granted under a Company equity incentive plan. The issuance of additional shares of the Company's common stock or convertible securities, including the Company's outstanding options, or otherwise, will dilute the ownership interest of the Company's common stockholders.Sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company's common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of the Company's common stock and impair the Company's ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The Company cannot predict the effect that future sales of the Company's common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of the Company's common stock.The Company's common stock is an equity security and is subordinate to the Company's existing and future indebtedness.The Company's common stock is an equity interest and does not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of common stock rank junior to all of the Company's indebtedness and to other non-equity claims on the Company and the Company’s assets available to satisfy claims on the Company, including claims in a bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceeding. The Company’s existing indebtedness restricts, and future indebtedness may restrict, payment of dividends on its common stock.Unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of common stock, (i) dividends are payable only when and if declared by the Company's board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board and (ii) as a corporation, the Company is restricted to only making dividend payments and redemption payments out of legally available assets. Further, the common stock places no restrictions on the Company's business or operations or on the Company’s ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to stockholders generally.In addition, any of the Company's rights (including the rights of the holders of the Company's common stock) to participate in the assets of any of the Company's subsidiaries upon any liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary's creditors (except to the extent the Company may itself be a creditor of that subsidiary), including that subsidiary’s trade creditors and the Company's creditors who have obtained or may obtain guarantees from the subsidiaries. As a result, the Company's common stock is subordinated to the Company and the Company's subsidiaries' obligations and liabilities, which currently include borrowings under the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the Company's Senior Unsecured Notes.The Company's ability to pay any dividends on its common stock may be limited.The Company has not paid any dividends on its common stock since January 3, 1989. The Company's current financing arrangements permit the Company to pay cash dividends on the Company’s common stock within limitations defined by the terms of the Company's existing indebtedness, including the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities, Senior Unsecured Notes and Page 23any indentures or other financing arrangements that the Company enters into in the future. For example, the agreements governing the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities restrict the Company's ability to make payments of dividends in cash if certain coverage ratios are not met. Even if such coverage ratios are met in the future, any determination to pay cash dividends on the Company's common stock will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will be based upon the Company's financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, plans for expansion, business opportunities, restrictions imposed by any of the Company's financing arrangements, provisions of applicable law and any other factors that the Company's board of directors determines are relevant at that point in time.The issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of common stock, which may negatively impact an investment in the Company’s common stock.The Company's board of directors is authorized to cause the Company to issue classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the Company's stockholders. The board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred shares that may be issued, including the designation, preferences, limitations and relative rights over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company's business and other terms. If the Company issues preferred shares in the future that have a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if the Company issues preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the Company's common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. As of the date of this filing, the Company has no outstanding shares of preferred stock but the Company has available for issuance 1,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.