ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important business risks and factors, and those business risks and factors described elsewhere in this report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in our forward-looking statements, and which could affect the value of an investment in the Company. All references to “we”, “us”, “our” and the like refer to the Company. Our complex manufacturing processes may lower yields and reduce our revenues. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Minute impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. In addition, as is common in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced difficulty in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes. As a consequence, we may suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our operating results could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capability if revenues do not increase proportionately. 11 Our ability to repair and maintain the aging manufacturing equipment we own may adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers’ requirements. We may be forced to expend significant funds in order to acquire replacement capital equipment that may not be readily available, thus resulting in manufacturing delays. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain qualified supplies of raw materials, parts and finished components on a timely basis and at a cost-effective price. The Company relies on its relationships with certain key suppliers for its supply of raw materials, parts and finished components that are qualified for use in the end-products the Company manufactures. While the Company currently has favorable working relationships with its suppliers, it cannot be sure that these relationships will continue in the future. Additionally, the Company cannot guarantee the availability or pricing of raw materials. The price of qualified raw materials can be highly volatile due to several factors, including a general shortage of raw materials, an unexpected increase in the demand for raw materials, disruptions in the suppliers’ business and competitive pressure among suppliers of raw materials to increase the price of raw materials. Suppliers may also choose, from time to time, to extend lead times or limit supplies due to a shortage in supplies. Additionally, some of the Company’s key suppliers of raw materials may have the capability of manufacturing the end products themselves and may therefore cease to supply the Company with its raw materials and compete directly with the Company for the manufacture of the end-products. Any interruption in availability of these qualified raw materials may impair the Company’s ability to manufacture its products on a timely and cost-effective basis. If the Company must identify alternative sources for its qualified raw materials, it would be adversely affected due to the time and process required in order for such alternative raw materials to be qualified for use in the applicable end-products. Any significant price increase in the Company’s raw materials that cannot be passed on to customers or a shortage in the supply of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on government contracts, which are subject to termination, price renegotiations and regulatory compliance, which can increase the cost of doing business and negatively impact our revenues. All of our contracts with the United States Government and its prime contractors contain customary provisions permitting termination at any time at the convenience of the United States Government or its prime contractors upon payment to us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit. Certain contracts are also subject to price renegotiations in accordance with United States Government sole source procurement provisions. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the foregoing government contracting risks will not materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we would be able to procure new government contracts to offset any revenue losses incurred due to early termination or price renegotiation of existing government contracts. Our government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations, which increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins. Failure to comply with procurement regulations could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, and accuracy of records. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these violations would have a negative impact on our reputation and operations, and could negatively impact our ability to obtain future government contracts. Changes in government policy or economic conditions could negatively impact our results. A large portion of the Company’s sales are to military and aerospace markets which are subject to the business risk of changes in governmental appropriations and changes in national defense policies and priorities. Any such changes could result in a change in demand for the Company’s products, which could have a material effect on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Our results may also be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Furthermore, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the shift in the requirement of the United States Department of Defense policy toward the use of standard industrial components over the use of high reliability components that we manufacture. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our sales, including in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities, such as regions of the Middle East. Our inventories may become obsolete and other assets may be subject to risks. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. We may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. The asset values determined under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for inventory and other assets each involve the making of material estimates by us, many of which could be based on mistaken assumptions or judgments. Environmental regulations could require us to incur significant costs. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws and, therefore, are subject to regulations related to their use, storage, discharge and disposal. No assurance can be made that the risk of accidental release of such materials can be completely eliminated. In the event of a violation of environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages and the cost of remediation and, along with the rest of the semiconductor industry, we are subject to variable interpretations and governmental priorities concerning environmental laws and regulations. Environmental statutes have been interpreted to provide for joint and several liability and strict liability regardless of actual fault. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur costs to comply with, or that our operations, business or financial condition will not be materially affected by, current or future environmental laws or regulations. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce gross profit margins and the value of an investment in our Company. The semiconductor industry, and the semiconductor product markets specifically, are highly competitive. Competition is based on price, product performance, quality, turn-around time, reliability and customer service. The gross profit margins realizable in our markets can differ across regions, depending on the economic strength of end-product markets in those regions. Even in strong markets, price pressures may emerge as competitors attempt to gain more share by lowering prices. Competition in the various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have and thus can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. Downturns in the business cycle could reduce the revenues and profitability of our business. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Semiconductor industry-wide sales declined significantly in 2001, 2002 2004, 2008, and the beginning of 2009. Our markets may experience other, possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future. We may also experience significant changes in our operating profit margins as a result of variations in sales, changes in product mix, price competition for orders and costs associated with the introduction of new products. Our operating results may decrease due to the decline of profitability in the semiconductor industry. Intense competition and a general slowdown in the demand for military-rated semiconductors worldwide have resulted in decreases in the profitability of many of our products. We expect that profitability for our products will continue to decline in the future. A decline in profitability for our products, if not offset by reductions in the costs of manufacturing these products, would decrease our profits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Uncertainty of current economic conditions, domestically and globally, could continue to affect demand for our products and negatively impact our business. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely uncertain. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth in various parts of the economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult than usual to make. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have a significant impact on our overall performance. Cost reduction efforts may be unsuccessful or insufficient to improve our profitability and may adversely impact productivity. During fiscal years 2010 and 2011, we continued certain cost-cutting measures originally started several years ago, and we have a plan to implement further cost-saving measures if necessary. The impact of these cost-reduction efforts on our profitability may be influenced by: · our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; · the possibility that these efforts may not generate the level of cost savings we expect or enable us to effectively compete and return to profitability; and · the risk that we may not be able to retain key employees. Since these cost-reduction efforts involve all aspects of our business, they could adversely impact productivity to an extent we did not anticipate and may inhibit future growth prospects. We may not achieve the intended effects of our new business strategy, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recognition of the changes in global geopolitical affairs and in United States military spending, we are attempting to increase sales of our products for non-military, scientific and industrial niche markets, such as medical electronics, machine tool controls, satellites, telecommunications networks and other market segments in which purchasing decisions are generally based primarily on product quality, long-term reliability and performance, rather than on product price. We are also attempting to offer additional products to the military markets that are complementary to those we currently sell to the military markets. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful and, if they are, that they will have the intended effects of increasing profitability. Furthermore, as we attempt to shift our focus to the sale of products having non-military, non-aerospace applications, we will be subject to greater price erosion and foreign competition. Our inability to introduce new products could result in decreased revenues and loss of market share to competitors; new technologies could also reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technology and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the semiconductor industry. Our success in these markets depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner or those products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technology in our product markets could have a material adverse effect on us. In light of the fact that many of our competitors have substantially greater revenues than us and that we have not spent any funds on research and development in recent years, we may not be able to accomplish the foregoing, which might have a material adverse effect on the Company, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Loss of, or reduction of business from, substantial clients could hurt our business by reducing our revenues, profitability and cash flow. During the fiscal year ended February 28, 2011, fifteen customers accounted for approximately 86% of our revenues. The loss or financial failure of any significant customer or distributor, any reduction in orders by any of our significant customers or distributors, or the cancellation of a significant order could materially and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, due to industry consolidation, the loss of any one customer or significant order may have a greater impact than we anticipate. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our more substantial customers in the future. 14 A shortage of three-inch silicon wafers could result in lost revenues due to an inability to build our products. Some of our products contain components manufactured in-house from three-inch silicon wafers. The worldwide supply of three-inch silicon wafers is dwindling. We currently have enough wafers in inventory and on order to meet our manufacturing needs for three years. Should a shortage of three-inch silicon wafers occur, or if we are not able to obtain three-inch silicon wafers at an economically suitable cost, we may not be able to switch our manufacturing capabilities to another size wafer in time to meet our customer’s needs, leading to lost revenues. The nature of our products exposes us to potentially significant product liability risk. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of high-reliability electronic components for critical applications. No assurance can be made that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that present coverage will continue to be available at acceptable costs, or that a product liability claim would not materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent on the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers. Our prospects depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Provisions in our charter documents and rights agreement could make it more difficult to acquire our Company and may reduce the market price of our stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions, and we have adopted a stockholder rights plan (as more fully described in our current report on Form 8-K filed on June 20, 2001), each of which could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or the removal of management, and which could also deter potential acquirers from making an offer to our stockholders and limit any opportunity to realize premiums over prevailing market prices of our common stock. Natural disasters, like hurricanes, or occurrences of other natural disasters whether in the United States or internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Natural disasters, like those related to hurricanes, or threats or occurrences of other similar events, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Hurricanes have affected us in the past, and may continue to affect us in the future, resulting in damage to our manufacturing facility in South Florida and our manufacturing equipment, office closures and impairing our ability to produce and deliver our products. Such events could also affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains, primarily for raw materials and process chemicals and gases, affect the physical facilities of our suppliers or customers, and make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that natural events have had on financial and economic markets generally, we cannot provide any estimate of how these activities might affect our future results. 15 Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete. We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products. We do not have patent protection on many aspects of our technology. Our reliance upon protection of some of our technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect us from the use by other persons of our technology, or their use of technology that is similar or superior to that which is embodied in our trade secrets. Others may be able to independently duplicate or exceed our technology in whole or in part. We may not be successful in maintaining the confidentiality of our technology, dissemination of which could have material adverse effects on our business. In addition, litigation may be necessary to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Obtaining or protecting our proprietary rights may require us to defend claims of intellectual property infringement by our competitors. We could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed or are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others with or without our prior awareness of the existence of those third-party rights, if any. If any infringements, real or imagined, happen to exist, arise or are claimed in the future, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent owners, discontinue or change our processes or products or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. We may not be successful in such efforts or such licenses may not be available under reasonable terms. Our failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or the occurrence of related litigation itself could have material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future. Our common stock, which is traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent periods, our common stock, the stock market in general and the market for shares of semiconductor industry-related stocks in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any similar fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 