ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The ownership of our common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. When evaluating us and our business before making a decision regarding investment in our securities, potential investors should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with other information contained in this report. If any of the events or circumstances described below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, they could adversely effect our business and operating results. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe are not significant may also impact our business operations. We rely on our Chief Executive Officer and a limited number of other key senior officers to operate our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or any of our key senior officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to hire or relocate and integrate suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all. Further, in order to continue to grow our business, we will need to expand our senior management team. We may be unable to attract or retain these persons. This could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and to satisfy our customers’ fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products for specific selling seasons, especially during our third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Vendor production delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas, customs clearance delays, and operational issues with any of the third-party logistics providers we use in certain countries are on-going risks of our business. We also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution centers to customers. In certain circumstances, we rely on the shipping arrangements our suppliers have made in the case of products shipped directly to retailers from the suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers, and increased security restrictions associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products to our retailers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders. Our results of operations are dependent on sales to several large customers and the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A few customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales revenue. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we lost all or a portion of the sales to any one of these customers. In particular, sales to our first and second largest customers accounted for approximately 19 and 11 percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales revenue in fiscal year 2014. While only two customers individually accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated net sales revenue in fiscal year 2014, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 43 percent of fiscal year 2014 consolidated net sales revenue. We expect that a small group of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales revenue. Although we have long-standing relationships with our major customers, we generally do not have written agreements that require these customers to buy from us or to purchase a minimum amount of our products. A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With the continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key customers whose bargaining strength is substantial and growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our customers, such as on-hand inventory reductions, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect our gross profit and results of operations. In recent years, we have observed a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drugstore channels and toward mass merchandisers, which includes super centers and warehouse club stores. In addition, the growth in internet sales both by large traditional retailers and pure online retailers such as Amazon.com has begun to reach a critical mass. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these types of customers. Additionally, certain of these customers source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. As certain large customers and online retailers grow even larger and become more sophisticated, they may continue to demand lower pricing, special packaging, shorter lead times for the delivery of products, smaller more frequent shipments, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If we do not effectively respond to these demands, these customers could decrease their purchases from us. A reduction in the demand for our products by these customers and the costs of complying with their business demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to our dependence on the strength of retail economies and may be vulnerable in the event of a prolonged economic downturn. Our business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Europe, Asia and Latin America. These retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest. Consumer spending in any geographic region is generally affected by a number of factors, including local economic conditions, government actions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, unemployment rates, gasoline prices and consumer confidence, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. As a result of a prolonged recovery from the most recent global recession, many consumers have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, recent increases in U.S. payroll and income taxes, the expiration of extended unemployment and food stamp benefits in the U.S. and similar such government program curtailments in certain European countries, a lack of clarity for many U.S. consumers regarding their personal health care costs, and slow-to-recover housing prices, among other things. The modest and protracted recovery from the recession in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico or any of the other countries in which we conduct significant business may continue to cause significant readjustments in both the volume and mix of our product sales, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of these external factors and the extent to which they may continue is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact our business. In recent years, the retail industry in the U.S., and increasingly elsewhere, has been characterized by intense competition among retailers and the growth in internet sales both by traditional retailers and pure online retailers such as Amazon.com. Because such competition, particularly when weak retail economies exist, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, we must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of our customers. A deterioration of any of our key retail economies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Expectations regarding past acquisitions, and any future acquisitions, including our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and other benefits along with our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We continue to look for opportunities to make complementary strategic business and / or brand acquisitions. Past and future acquisitions, if not favorably received by consumers, shareholders, analysts, and others in the investment community, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, any acquisition involves numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products, and personnel associated with the acquisitions; · difficulties in integrating distribution channels; 15 Table of Contents · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · difficulties in transitioning and preserving customer, contractor, supplier, and other important third-party relationships; · difficulties realizing anticipated cost savings, synergies and other benefits related to an acquisition; · risks associated with subsequent operating asset write-offs, contingent liabilities and impairment of related acquired intangible assets; · risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited experience; and · potential loss of key employees associated with the acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the relation of other foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our sales and profitability and can result in exchange losses because the Company has operations and assets located outside the United States. The Company transacts a significant portion of its business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar (“foreign currencies”). Such transactions include sales, certain inventory purchases and operating expenses. As a result, portions of our cash, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, foreign operations will continue to expose us to foreign currency fluctuations, both for purposes of actual conversion and financial reporting purposes. Additionally, we purchase a substantial amount of our products from Chinese manufacturers. During fiscal years 2014 and 2012, the Chinese Renminbi appreciated against the U.S. Dollar approximately 3 and 4 percent, respectively. During fiscal year 2013, the Chinese Renminbi remained relatively flat against the U.S. Dollar. Although our purchases from China are in U.S. Dollars, if the Chinese Renminbi continues to appreciate against the U.S. Dollar, the costs of our products will likely rise over time because of the impact the fluctuations will have on our suppliers, and we may not be able to pass on any or all of these price increases to our customers. Where operating conditions permit, we seek to reduce foreign currency risk by purchasing most of our inventory with U.S. Dollars and by converting cash balances denominated in foreign currencies to U.S. Dollars. We have also historically hedged against certain foreign currency exchange rate-risk by using a series of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange risk inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. In these transactions, we execute a forward currency contract that will settle at the end of a forecasted period. Because the size and terms of the forward contract are designed so that its fair market value will move in the opposite direction and approximate magnitude of the underlying foreign currency’s forecasted exchange gain or loss during the forecasted period, a hedging relationship is created. To the extent we forecast the expected foreign currency cash flows from the period the forward contract is entered into until the date it will settle with reasonable accuracy, we significantly lower or materially eliminate a particular currency’s exchange risk exposure over the life of the related forward contract. We enter into these types of agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk and the hedge pricing appears reasonable. It is not practical for us to hedge all our exposures, nor are we able to project in any meaningful way the possible effect and interplay of all foreign currency fluctuations on translated amounts or future net income. This is due to our constantly changing exposure to various currencies, the fact that each foreign currency reacts differently to the U.S. Dollar and the significant number of currencies involved. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. Dollar foreign exchange rates will be stable in the future or that fluctuations in foreign currency markets will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Disruptions in U.S., Euro zone and other international credit markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in national and international credit markets could result in limitations on credit availability, tighter lending standards, higher interest rates on consumer and business loans, and higher fees associated with obtaining and maintaining credit availability. Disruptions may also materially limit consumer credit availability and restrict credit availability to our customer base and the Company. In addition, in the event of disruptions in the financial markets, current or future lenders may become unwilling or unable to continue to advance funds under any agreements in place, increase their commitments under existing credit arrangements or enter into new financing arrangements. The failure of our lenders to provide sufficient financing may constrain our ability to operate or grow the business and to make complementary strategic business and / or brand acquisitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business continues to become more subject to weather conditions which can cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. With the acquisition and growth of our Healthcare / Home Environment segment, our sales have become more subject to weather conditions. Sales volumes for thermometry, humidifiers and heating appliances are higher during and subject to the severity of the cold weather months, while sales of fans, dehumidifiers and insect control devices are higher during and subject to weather conditions in spring and summer months. Weather conditions can also more broadly impact sales across the organization. For instance, natural disasters (i.e., hurricanes and ice storms) or unusually severe winter weather may result in temporary unanticipated reductions in retail traffic and consumer demand. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers, most of which are located in the Far East, and any inability to obtain products from such manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East, principally in China. This concentration exposes us to risks associated with doing business globally, including: changing international political relations; labor availability and cost; changes in laws, including tax laws, regulations and treaties; changes in labor laws, regulations and policies; changes in customs duties and other trade barriers; changes in shipping costs; currency exchange fluctuations; local political unrest; an extended and complex transportation cycle; the impact of changing economic conditions; and the availability and cost of raw materials and merchandise. The political, legal and cultural environment in the Far East is rapidly evolving, and any change that impairs our ability to obtain products from manufacturers in that region, or to obtain products at marketable rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories. We may also find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in China has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America, Europe and other countries. China has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance labor will continue to be available in China at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on the cost of products manufactured in China. Many of our suppliers in China continue to experience labor shortages, which could result in future supply delays and disruptions and have resulted in a substantial increase in labor costs over the last three fiscal years. Similarly, evolving government labor regulations and associated compliance standards could cause our product costs to rise or could cause manufacturing partners we rely on to exit the business. This could have an adverse impact on product availability and quality. The Chinese economy has experienced rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. Higher general inflation rates will require manufacturers to continue to seek increased product prices. During fiscal years 2014 and 2012, the Chinese Renminbi appreciated against the U.S. Dollar approximately 3 and 4 percent, respectively. During fiscal year 2013, the Chinese Renminbi remained relatively flat against the U.S. Dollar. If the 17 Table of Contents Chinese Renminbi appreciates with respect to the U.S. Dollar in the future, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases, and this can adversely impact profitability. Future interventions by China may result in further currency appreciation and increase our product costs over time. The Company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related effects of the product cost increases. Although China currently enjoys “most favored nation” trading status with the U.S., the U.S. government has in the past proposed to revoke such status and to impose higher tariffs on products imported from China. There is no assurance that our business will not be affected by any of the aforementioned risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased cost of goods sold and certain operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. Our suppliers purchase significant amounts of metals and plastics to manufacture our products. In addition, they also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in their production processes. Changes in the cost of fuel as a result of Middle East tensions and related political instabilities may continue to drive up fuel prices resulting in higher transportation prices and product costs. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a significant portion of our cost of goods sold and certain operating expenses. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by future increases in these costs. We have had some success in implementing price increases to our customers or passing on product cost increases by moving customers to newer product models with enhancements that justify higher prices, and we intend to continue these efforts. We can make no assurances that these efforts will be successful in the future or will materially offset the cost increases we may incur. Certain of our U.S. distribution facilities are geographically concentrated and operate during peak shipping periods at or near capacity. These factors increase our risk that disruptions could occur and significantly affect our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. Such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. To make our distribution operations more efficient, we have consolidated most of our U.S. distribution, receiving and storage functions into two distribution facilities in northern Mississippi. Approximately 68 percent of our consolidated gross sales volume shipped from facilities in this region in fiscal year 2014. For this reason, any disruption in our distribution process in either of these facilities, even for a few days, could adversely effect our business and operating results. Additionally, our U.S. distribution operations may incur capacity constraints during peak shipping periods as we continue to grow our sales revenue through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. These and other factors described above could cause delays in the delivery of our products and increases in shipping and storage costs that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any difficulties encountered during the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 transition of certain Personal Care appliance inventories and staffing from a former facility to a new facility in Olive Branch, Mississippi, could interrupt our logistical systems and could have a material adverse impact on our business. As previously discussed in further detail under Item 1. Business, “Manufacturing and Distribution”, we commenced shipments out of our new 1.3 million square foot distribution facility in Olive Branch, Mississippi during the first week of September 2013. The new facility will consolidate the distribution operations of both our Personal Care and Healthcare / Home Environment appliance businesses. We have moved the domestic Healthcare / Home Environment distribution operation out of its previously leased Memphis, Tennessee location and have terminated the lease associated with the facility. We expect to complete the transition of our domestic Personal Care appliance distribution operation to the new facility in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015. During these transitions, there is a risk for warehouse order processing and shipment delays as a result of the impacts of new software installations, adapting to new equipment and processes, and the training of new employees. Any resulting interruption in our logistical systems could impact our ability to procure our products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution facilities, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. These and other factors described above could have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our projections of product demand, sales and net income are highly subjective in nature and our future sales and net income could vary in a material amount from our projections. From time to time, we may provide projections to our shareholders, lenders, investment community, and other stakeholders of our future sales and net income. Since we do not require long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the demand for many of our products, or the amount and timing of our future sales and related net income. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their retail customers and due to other risks described in this report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make our inventory management more difficult. Because our ability to forecast product demand and the timing of related sales includes significant subjective input, our future sales and net income could vary materially from our projections. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record impairment charges, which may be significant. A significant portion of our long-term assets continues to consist of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as a result of past acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather review them for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If such circumstances or conditions exist, further steps are required in order to determine whether the carrying value of each of the individual assets exceeds its fair market value. If analysis indicates that an individual asset’s carrying value does exceed its fair market value, the next step is to record a loss equal to the excess of the individual asset’s carrying value over its fair value. The steps required by GAAP entail significant amounts of judgment and subjectivity. We complete our analysis of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets during the first quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. Events and changes in circumstances that may indicate there is impairment and which may indicate interim impairment testing is necessary include, but are not limited to: strategic decisions to exit a business or dispose of an asset made in response to changes in economic, political and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base and on broad market conditions that drive valuation considerations by market participants, our internal expectations with regard to future revenue growth and the assumptions we make when performing our impairment reviews, a significant decrease in the market price of our assets, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which our assets are used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect our assets, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition of an asset, and significant changes in the cash flows associated with an asset. We analyze these assets at the individual asset, reporting unit and company levels. As a result of such circumstances, we may be required to record a significant charge to net income in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets is determined. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on licensed trademarks with third parties and license certain trademarks to third parties in exchange for royalty income, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are dependent on our various licensed trademarks as a substantial portion of our sales revenue comes from selling products under licensed trademarks. As a result, we are dependent upon the continued use of these trademarks, including the Revlon, Vicks, Braun, Honeywell, and Vidal Sassoon trademarks. Additionally, we now license certain trademarks, including OXO and PUR, to third parties in exchange for royalty income. It is possible that certain actions taken by the Company, its licensors, licensees, or other third parties might diminish greatly the value of any of our licensed trademarks. Additionally, some of our licensors and licensees have the ability to terminate their license agreements with us at their option subject to each parties’ right to continue the license for a limited period of time following notice of termination. If we or our licensees were unable to sell products under these licensed trademarks, or one or more of our license agreements are terminated or the value of the trademarks were diminished by the Company, a licensor, or licensee due to any inability to perform under the terms of the agreements or other reasons, or due to the 19 Table of Contents actions of third parties, the effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be both negative and material. To compete successfully, we must develop and introduce a continuing stream of innovative new products to meet changing consumer preferences. Our long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on our ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that meet changing consumer preferences and take advantage of opportunities sooner than our competition. We face the risk that our competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with our products. Our core initiatives include fostering our culture of innovation and new product development, enhancing and extending our existing product categories and developing new allied product categories. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing new products on a continuing basis and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. If we are unable to develop and introduce a continuing stream of new products, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by trade barriers, exchange controls, expropriations, and other risks associated with foreign operations. The economies of foreign countries important to our operations, including countries in Asia, Europe and Latin America, could suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and / or political instability or hyperinflation in the future. Our international operations in countries in Asia, Europe and Latin America, including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of our customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect us, including, among other things: · protectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of our products; · new restrictions on access to markets; · lack of developed infrastructure; · inflation (including hyperinflation) or recession; · changes in, and the burdens and costs of compliance with, a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws, accounting standards, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; · social, political or economic instability; · acts of war and terrorism; · natural disasters or other crises; · reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; · increases in duties and taxation; · restrictions on transfer of funds or exchange of currencies; · currency devaluations; · expropriation of assets; and · other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. Should any of these events occur, our ability to sell or export our products or repatriate profits could be impaired, we could experience a loss of sales and profitability from our international operations, and / or we could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We incurred significant debt and may incur additional debt to fund future acquisitions, share repurchases and capital expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. Our debt levels can adversely affect our financial condition and can add constraints on our ability to operate our business. Our indebtedness can, among other things: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; · limit our ability to obtain necessary financing and to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes; · subject us to higher interest expense (the majority of our debt is fixed or effectively fixed through the use of interest rate swaps and these rates may produce higher interest expense than would be available with floating rate debt, as is currently the case with decreased market interest rates); · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · limit our ability to pursue acquisitions or sell assets; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our debt agreements contain restrictive financial and operational covenants. Significant restrictive covenants include limitations on, among other things, our ability under certain circumstances to: · incur additional debt, including guarantees; · grant certain types of liens; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; · pay dividends on our common stock; · repurchase our common stock; · enter into substantial new lines of business; and · enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates. Our failure to comply with these and other restrictive covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on central Global Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) systems and other peripheral information systems. Obsolescence or interruptions in the operation of our computerized systems or other information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We now conduct most of our businesses under a single ERP system. Our operations are largely dependent on this system. We continuously make adjustments to improve the effectiveness of the ERP and other peripheral information systems, including the installation of significant new subsystems. In fiscal years 2011 and 2012, we converted our ERP systems to a more updated version of our software provider’s system. During that timeframe, all significant operating units within the Personal Care and Housewares segments converted to the new version. During fiscal year 2014, our Healthcare / Home Environment segment converted from its legacy ERP system onto our global ERP system. We are constantly upgrading and adding functionality to the overall system with key enhancements currently underway in the 21 Table of Contents product development and finance areas. Testing of any new subsystems before active deployment often requires significant additional effort across much of our organization. Complications or delays in completing these projects could cause considerable disruptions to our business and may result in higher implementation costs than planned, along with a concurrent reallocation of human resources. Any failures or disruptions in the ERP and other information systems or any complications resulting from ongoing adjustments to our systems could cause interruption or loss of data in our information or logistical systems that could materially impact our ability to procure products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution centers, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. In addition, natural disasters or other extraordinary events may disrupt our information systems and other infrastructure, and our data recovery processes may not be sufficient to protect against loss. Furthermore, application program bugs, system conflict crashes, user error, data integrity issues, customer data conflicts, and integration issues all pose significant risks. We rely on certain outside vendors to assist us with the upgrade of our software, the ongoing implementation of new enhancements to our information systems and to assist us in maintaining some of our infrastructure. Should any of these vendors fail to perform as expected, it could adversely affect our service levels and restrict our ability to conduct business. Information security breaches and any related operational interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Information systems require constant updates to their security policies and hardware systems to reduce the risk of unauthorized access, malicious destruction of data or information theft. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems, some of which may go undetected for extended periods. Any such compromise or breach could cause interruptions in our operations, damage to our reputation and might require us to spend significant management time and money investigating the event and dealing with local and federal law enforcement. In addition, we could become the subject of litigation and various claims from our customers, employees, suppliers, service providers, and shareholders. Regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of these matters, litigation and proceedings of this type are expensive to respond to and defend, and we could be forced to devote substantial resources and time responding to and defending them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Audits and related disputes with taxing authorities could have an adverse impact on our business. We are involved in tax audits and related disputes in various taxing jurisdictions. The acquisitions of Kaz and PUR have added considerable complexity to our tax structure, and the risk of liability for past activities under prior ownership. We believe that we have complied with all applicable reporting and tax payment obligations. However, in the past we have sometimes disagreed with taxing authority positions on various issues. Historically, we have vigorously defended our tax positions through available administrative and judicial avenues. Based on currently available information, we have established reserves for our best estimate of the probable tax liabilities. Future actions by taxing authorities may result in tax liabilities that are significantly higher or lower than the reserves established, which could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. For more information about tax audits and related disputes, see Note (10) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Potential changes in laws, including tax laws, and the costs and complexities of compliance with such laws could have an adverse impact on our business. The impact of future legislation in the U.S. or abroad, including such things as employment and health insurance laws, climate change related legislation, tax legislation, regulations or treaties, including any that would affect the companies or subsidiaries that comprise our consolidated group, is always uncertain. The U.S. Congress continues to consider certain proposed changes in the tax laws, and new energy and environmental legislation that, if enacted, may increase our costs of doing business. 22 Table of Contents Under current tax law, favorable tax treatment of our non-U.S. net income is dependent on our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Changes in the composition of our stock ownership could have an impact on our classification. If our classification were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn, on the Company’s business. A non-U.S. corporation, such as ours, will constitute a “controlled foreign corporation” or “CFC” for U.S. federal income tax purposes if its largest U.S. shareholders (i.e., those owning 10 percent or more of its shares) together own more than 50 percent of the stock outstanding. If the IRS or a court determined that we were a CFC, then each of our U.S. shareholders who own (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock on the last day of our taxable year would be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our “subpart F income” (and the subpart F income of any our subsidiaries determined to be a CFC) for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC. In addition, any gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s proportionate share of our and our CFC subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder’s holding period of the shares while we are a CFC. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 