ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The ownership of our common shares involves a number of risks and uncertainties. When evaluating us and our business before making a decision regarding investment in our securities, potential investors should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with other information contained in this report. If any of the events or circumstances described below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, they could adversely effect our business and operating results. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently think are not significant may also impact our business operations. We rely on our chief executive officer and a small number of other key senior managers to operate our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have a large group of senior managers in our business. The loss of our chief executive officer or any of our senior managers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to hire or relocate and integrate suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all. Further, in order to continue to grow our business, we will need to expand our senior management team. We may be unable to attract or retain these persons. This could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and to satisfy our customers’ fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products for specific selling seasons, especially during our third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Vendor production delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas as well as customs clearance are on-going risks of our business. We also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution centers to customers, and we rely on the shipping arrangements our suppliers have made in the case of products shipped directly to retailers from the suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers, and increased security restrictions associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products to our retailers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders. To make our distribution operations more efficient, we have consolidated many of our U.S. distribution, receiving and storage functions into our Southaven, Mississippi distribution center. Approximately 70 percent of our consolidated gross sales volume shipped from this facility in fiscal 2009. For this reason, any disruption in our distribution process in this facility, even for a few days, could adversely effect our business and operating results. Additionally, our Mississippi distribution center operations have grown to a level where we may incur capacity constraints during our peak shipping season, which occurs during our third fiscal quarter each year. These and other factors described above could cause delays in delivery of our products and increases in shipping and storage costs that could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our projections of sales and earnings are highly subjective and our future sales and earnings could vary in a material amount from our projections. Most of our major customers purchase our products electronically through electronic data interchange and expect prompt delivery of products from our existing inventories to the customers’ retail stores or distribution centers. This method of ordering products allows our customers to respond quickly to changes in demands of their retail customers. From time to time, we may provide projections to our shareholders, lenders, investment community, and other stakeholders of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not require long-term purchase commitments from our major 12 customers and the customer order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our future sales and related earnings. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their retail customers and due to other risks described in this report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make our inventory management more difficult. Because our ability to forecast sales is highly subjective, there is a risk that our future sales and earnings could vary materially from our projections. Our results of operations are dependent on sales to several large customers and the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A few customers account for a substantial percentage of our sales. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we lost all or a portion of the sales to these customers. In particular, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including its affiliate, SAM’S Club) accounted for approximately 17 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2009. While only one customer accounted for ten percent or more of net sales in fiscal 2009, our top five customers accounted for approximately 43 percent of fiscal 2009 net sales. We expect customer concentrations will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales. Although we have long-standing relationships with our major customers, we generally do not have written agreements that require these customers to buy from us or to purchase a minimum amount of our products. A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key customers whose bargaining strength is substantial and growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our customers, such as on-hand inventory reductions, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding the impact of such issues with a significant customer that ceased operations in fiscal 2009, see Note (19) to our consolidated financial statements. Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect our gross profit and results of operations. In recent years, we have observed a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drugstore channels and toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If we do not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from us. A reduction in the demand of our products by these mass merchandisers and the costs of complying with customer business demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on third party manufacturers, most of which are located in the Far East, and any inability to obtain products from such manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East, principally in China. This exposes us to risks associated with doing business globally, including: changing international political relations; labor availability and cost; changes in laws, including tax laws, regulations and treaties; changes in labor laws, regulations, and policies; changes in customs duties and other trade barriers; changes in shipping costs; currency exchange fluctuations; local political unrest; an extended and complex transportation cycle; the impact of changing economic conditions; and the availability and cost of raw materials and merchandise. The political, legal and cultural environment 13 in the Far East is rapidly evolving, and any change that impairs our ability to obtain products from manufacturers in that region, or to obtain products at marketable rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have sourcing relationships with over 200 third-party manufacturers. During fiscal 2009, the top two manufacturers fulfilled approximately 40 percent of our product requirements. Over the same period, our top five suppliers fulfilled approximately 55 percent of our product requirements. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories. We may also find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in China has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. China has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance that labor will continue to be available in China at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on product costs in China. Labor shortages in China could result in supply delays and disruptions and drive a substantial increase in labor costs. Similarly, evolving government labor regulations and associated compliance standards could cause our product costs to rise or could cause manufacturing partners we rely on to exit the business. This could have an adverse impact on product availability and quality. The Chinese economy has experienced rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. Higher general inflation rates will require manufacturers to continue to seek increased product prices. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, the Chinese Renminbi appreciated approximately 4 percent and 9 percent, respectively, against the U.S. Dollar. To the extent the Renminbi continues to appreciate with respect to the U.S. Dollar, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases, and this could adversely impact profitability. The Company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related effects of the product cost increases. Although China currently enjoys “most favored nation” trading status with the U.S., the U.S. government has in the past proposed to revoke such status and to impose higher tariffs on products imported from China. There is no assurance that our business will not be affected by any of the aforementioned risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased cost of sales and certain operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. Our suppliers purchase significant amounts of metals and plastics to manufacture our products. In addition, they also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in their production processes. Changes in the cost of fuel have corresponding impacts to our transportation costs. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a significant portion of our cost of sales and certain operating expenses. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by future increases in these costs. We have had some success in implementing price increases or passing on cost increases by moving customers to newer product models with enhancements that justify higher prices and we intend to continue these efforts. We can make no assurances that these efforts will be successful in the future or will materially offset the cost increases we may incur. We hold certain auction rate securities that we may be unable to liquidate at their recorded values or at all due to credit concerns in the U.S. capital markets. Protracted illiquidity and any deterioration in the credit ratings of the issuers, dealers or credit insurers may require us to record other-than-temporary impairment charges. We hold investments in auction rate securities (“ARS”) collateralized by student loans (with underlying maturities from 20 to 37 years). At February 28, 2009, 97 percent of the aggregate collateral was guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Liquidity for these securities was normally dependent on an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, ranging from 7 to 35 days. Beginning in February 2008, the auctions for the ARS held by us and others were unsuccessful, requiring us to hold them 14 beyond their typical auction reset dates. Auctions fail when there is insufficient demand. However, this does not represent a default by the issuer of the security. Upon an auction’s failure, the interest rates reset based on a formula contained in the security. The rate is generally equal to or higher than the current market rate for similar securities. The securities will continue to accrue interest and be auctioned until one of the following occurs: the auction succeeds; the issuer calls the securities; or the securities mature. Conditions in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate our ARS. At this time, there is a very limited demand for the securities we continue to hold and limited acceptable alternatives to liquidate such securities. Based on current market conditions, we believe it is likely that auctions of our holdings in these securities will be unsuccessful in the near term, resulting in us continuing to hold securities beyond their next scheduled auction reset dates and limiting the short-term liquidity of these investments. Management intends to continue to reduce our holdings in these securities as circumstances allow, but believes we have sufficient liquidity from operating cash flows and available financial sources, including our revolving credit facility, which we believe will continue to provide sufficient capital resources to fund our foreseeable short and long-term liquidity requirements. During the quarter ended August 31, 2008, we developed a series of discounted cash flow models and began using them to value our ARS. Some of the inputs into the discounted cash flow models we use are unobservable in the market and have a significant effect on valuation. These inputs attempt to capture the impact of illiquidity on the investments and during the fiscal year ended February 28, 2009, we recorded pre-tax unrealized losses on our ARS totaling $2.68 million on $22.65 million of face value ARS. The impairment was reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss in our accompanying consolidated balance sheet net of related tax effects of $0.91 million. The recording of these unrealized losses is not a result of the quality of the underlying collateral, but rather a markdown reflecting a lack of liquidity and other market conditions. If the issuers’ credit ratings or other market conditions continue to deteriorate, the Company may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on these investments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information on our ARS, see Notes (1), (15) and (16) to our consolidated financial statements. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant. A significant portion of our long-term assets continues to consist of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as a result of past acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather review them for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We consider whether circumstances or conditions exist which suggest that the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets might be impaired. If such circumstances or conditions exist, further steps are required in order to determine whether the carrying value of each of the individual assets exceeds its fair market value. If analysis indicates that an individual asset’s carrying value does exceed its fair market value, the next step is to record a loss equal to the excess of the individual asset’s carrying value over its fair value. The steps required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) entail significant amounts of judgment and subjectivity. We complete our analysis of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets during the first quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Events and changes in circumstances that may indicate that there is impairment and which may indicate that interim impairment testing is necessary include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions to exit a business or dispose of an asset made in response to changes in economic, political and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base and on broad market conditions that drive valuation considerations by market participants, our internal expectations with regard to future revenue growth and the assumptions we make when performing our impairment reviews, a significant decrease in the market price of our assets, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which our assets are used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect our assets, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition of an asset, and significant changes in the cash flows associated with an asset. We analyze these assets at the individual asset, reporting unit and Company levels. As a result of such circumstances, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets is determined. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 As a result of the continued deterioration of economic conditions during the second half of fiscal 2009, the Company evaluated the impact of these conditions and other developments on its reporting units to assess whether impairment indicators were present that would require interim impairment testing. During the latter half of the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company’s total market capitalization began to decline below the Company’s consolidated shareholders’ equity balance at November 30, 2008. When the Company’s total market capitalization remains below its consolidated shareholders’ equity balance for a sustained period of time, this may be an indicator of potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Because this condition continued throughout the balance of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill and other intangible assets might not be recoverable and performed additional impairment testing as of February 28, 2009. These tests resulted in impairment charges totaling $99.51 million ($99.06 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. For additional information, see the discussion under Notes (1) and (3) to our consolidated financial statements and in “Results of Operations” under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We rely on licensed trademarks, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are materially dependent on our licensed trademarks as a substantial portion of our sales revenue comes from selling products under licensed trademarks. As a result, we are materially dependent upon the continued use of such trademarks, particularly the Vidal Sassoon® and Revlon® trademarks. Actions taken by licensors and other third parties could diminish greatly the value of any of our licensed trademarks. If we were unable to sell products under these licensed trademarks or the value of the trademarks were diminished by the licensor due to any inability to perform under the terms of the agreements or other reasons, or due to the actions of third parties, the effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be both negative and material. We are subject to risks related to our dependence on the strength of retail economies and may be vulnerable in the event of a prolonged economic downturn. Our business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Europe and Latin America. These retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest. Consumer spending in any geographic region is generally affected by a number of factors, including local economic conditions, government actions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. As a result of the global recession, consumers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, and sharply falling home prices, among other things. A prolonged economic downturn or recession in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico or any of the other countries in which we conduct significant business may cause significant readjustments in both the volume and mix of our product sales, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of these external factors and the extent to which they may continue is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact our business. In recent years, the retail industry in the U.S. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition among retailers. Because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, we must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of our customers. A continued weakening of retail economies, as we have seen over the last fiscal year, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 To compete successfully, we must develop and introduce a continuing stream of innovative new products to meet changing consumer preferences. Our long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on our ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that meet changing consumer preferences and take advantage of opportunities sooner than our competition. We face the risk that our competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with our products. Our core initiatives include fostering our culture of innovation and new product development, enhancing and extending our existing product categories and developing new allied product categories. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing new products on a continuing basis and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. If we are unable to develop and introduce a continuing stream of new products, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued disruption in U.S. and international credit markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent disruptions in national and international credit markets have lead to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards, higher interest rates on consumer and business loans, and higher fees associated with obtaining and maintaining credit availability. Continued disruption may materially limit consumer credit availability and restrict credit availability to our customer base and the Company. Effective December 15, 2008, we amended our revolving credit agreement (the “Revolving Line of Credit Agreement”) dated June 1, 2004 between Helen of Troy, L.P., as borrower, and Bank of America N.A. and other lenders. The amendment extended the maturity date until December 15, 2013 and modified certain terms and covenants. For additional information regarding the amendment, see Note (5) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The amendment to the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement increased our borrowing costs and adjusted the limitations on our ability to incur additional debt. In addition, because of recent disruption in the financial markets and the increased level of recent banking failures, current or future lenders may become unwilling or unable to continue to advance funds under any agreements in place, increase their commitments under existing credit arrangements or enter into new financing arrangements. The failure of our lenders to provide sufficient financing may constrain our ability to operate or grow the business and to make complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the relation of other foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our sales and profitability and can result in exchange losses because the Company has operations and assets located outside the United States. The Company transacts a significant portion of its business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar (“foreign currencies”). Such transactions include sales, certain inventory purchases and operating expenses. As a result, portions of our cash, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, foreign operations will continue to expose us to foreign currency fluctuations, both for purposes of actual conversion and financial reporting purposes. Additionally, we purchase a substantial amount of our products from Chinese manufacturers. The Chinese Renminbi has appreciated against the U.S. Dollar over the last year. Although our purchases are in U.S. Dollars, if the Chinese Renminbi continues to rise against the U.S. Dollar, the costs of our products will continue to rise because of the impact the fluctuations will have on our suppliers, and we may not be able to pass any or all of these price increases on to our customers. We identify foreign currency risk by regularly monitoring our foreign currency-denominated transactions and balances. Where operating conditions permit, we reduce foreign currency risk by purchasing most of our inventory with U.S. Dollars and by converting cash balances denominated in foreign currencies to U.S. Dollars. We have historically hedged against certain foreign currency exchange rate-risk by using a series of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange risk inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. In these transactions, we execute a forward currency 17 contract that will settle at the end of a forecasted period. Because the size and terms of the forward contract are designed so that its fair market value will move in the opposite direction and approximate magnitude of the underlying foreign currency’s forecasted exchange gain or loss during the forecasted period, a hedging relationship is created. To the extent that we forecast the expected foreign currency cash flows from the period the forward contract is entered into until the date it will settle with reasonable accuracy, we significantly lower or materially eliminate a particular currency’s exchange risk exposure over the life of the related forward contract. We enter into these types of agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk and the hedge pricing appears reasonable. It is not practical for us to hedge all our exposures, nor are we able to project in any meaningful way the possible effect and interplay of all foreign currency fluctuations on translated amounts or future earnings. This is due to our constantly changing exposure to various currencies, the fact that each foreign currency reacts differently to the U.S. Dollar and the significant number of currencies involved. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Dollar foreign exchange rates will be stable in the future or that fluctuations in foreign currency markets will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated or we may not be able to identify suitable new acquisition opportunities, which may constrain our prospects for future growth and profitability and adversely affect the price of our common shares. We are constantly looking for opportunities to make complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions. These acquisitions, if not favorably received by consumers, shareholders, analysts, and others in the investment community, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. In addition, any acquisition involves numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel associated with the acquisitions; · difficulties in integrating distribution channels; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · difficulties in transitioning and preserving customer, contractor, supplier and other important third party relationships; · difficulties realizing anticipated cost savings, synergies and other benefits related to an acquisition; · risks associated with subsequent operating asset write-offs, contingent liabilities, and impairment of related acquired intangible assets; · risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited experience; and · potential loss of key employees associated with the acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 18 We may incur debt to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. Our debt could adversely affect our financial condition and can add constraints on our ability to operate our business. Our indebtedness can, among other things: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; · limit our ability to obtain necessary financing and to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes; · subject us to a higher interest expense (a significant portion of our debt is fixed or effectively fixed through the use of interest rate swaps and these rates may produce higher interest expense than would be available with floating rate debt, as is currently the case with decreased market interest rates); · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · limit our ability to pursue acquisitions or sell assets; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our debt agreements contain restrictive financial and operational covenants. Significant restrictive covenants include limitations on, among other things, our ability under certain circumstances to: · incur additional debt, including guarantees; · grant certain types of liens; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; · pay dividends on our common shares; · repurchase our common shares; · enter into substantial new lines of business; and · enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates. Our failure to comply with these and other restrictive covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 We rely on our central Global Enterprise Resource Planning Systems and other peripheral information systems. Obsolescence or interruptions in the operation of our computerized systems or other information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We conduct most of our businesses under one integrated Global Enterprise Resource Planning System, which we implemented in September 2004. Most of our operations are dependent on this system. Any failures or disruptions in this system could cause considerable disruptions to our business and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to experience delays in transitioning our Mexican operations to our global information system. We have encountered difficulties and delays in integrating information exchanges between our Company and a key third party order fulfillment provider we use in Mexico. While certain systems have gone live, our plan for a full transition of our Mexican operations to our global information system has been extended into fiscal 2010. We continuously make adjustments to improve the effectiveness of our systems. Complications resulting from such adjustments could potentially cause considerable disruptions to our business. Application program bugs, system conflict crashes, user error, data integrity issues, customer data conflicts and related integration issues all pose significant risks. To support new technologies, we continue to support and upgrade a growing technology infrastructure base. Increased computing capacity, power requirements, back-up capacities, broadband network infrastructure and increased security needs are all potential areas for disruption or failure. We rely on certain outside vendors to assist us with implementation and enhancements and other vendors to assist us in maintaining some of our infrastructure. Should any of these vendors fail to perform as expected, it could adversely affect our service levels and threaten our ability to conduct business. In addition, we have not migrated our core software to newer versions because of the degree of customization it underwent upon its initial implementation. This places the Company’s and its software vendor’s ability to continue to provide the appropriate level of support for these systems at risk. The Company also routinely assesses how much longer it can continue to use current software versions, and the most appropriate strategy for making any changes that will be required. Upgrading to later versions of this software or replacing the software with a new vendor’s offerings may require a substantial investment of time and resources by the Company and may result in disruptions in various aspects of our operations. Natural disasters or other extraordinary events may disrupt our information systems and other infrastructure, and our data recovery processes may not be sufficient to protect against loss. Any interruption or loss of data in our information or logistical systems could materially impact our ability to procure our products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution centers, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. These and other factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A breach of our computer security systems and unauthorized intrusion could allow for fraudulent use of sensitive information and/or damage to critical data and systems. Such activity could subject us to litigation and various other claims and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the reputation of our business. Information systems require constant updates to their security policies and hardware systems to reduce the risk of unauthorized access, malicious destruction of data, or information theft. We believe we have taken steps designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program to continue to do so. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that we will not suffer a data compromise. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. 20 Any such compromises or breach could cause interruptions in our operations and might require us to spend significant management time and money investigating the event and dealing with local and federal law enforcement. In addition, we could become the subject of litigation and various claims from our customers, employees, suppliers, service providers and shareholders. Regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of these matters, litigation and proceedings of this type are expensive to respond to and defend, and we could devote substantial resources and time to responding to and defending them. The ultimate resolution of any such litigation, claims and investigations could cause damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Audits and related disputes with taxing authorities, tax compliance and the impact of changes in tax law could have an adverse impact on our business. From time to time, we are involved in tax audits and related disputes with various taxing jurisdictions. We believe that we have complied with all applicable reporting and tax payment obligations and in the past have disagreed with taxing authority positions on various issues. Historically, we have vigorously defended our tax positions through available administrative and judicial avenues. Based on currently available information, we have established reserves for our best estimate of the probable tax liabilities. Future actions by taxing authorities may result in tax liabilities that are significantly higher or lower than the reserves established, which could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. The impact of future tax legislation, regulations or treaties, including any legislation in the U.S. or abroad that would effect the companies or subsidiaries that comprise our consolidated group is always uncertain. The U.S. Congress is currently considering several alternative proposed changes in the tax law that, if enacted may increase our effective overall tax rate. Our ability to respond to such changes so that we maintain favorable tax treatment, the cost and complexity of such compliance, and its impact on our ability to operate effectively in jurisdictions always presents a risk. For more information about recently completed tax audits and related disputes, see Note (8) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Under current tax law, favorable tax treatment of our non- U.S. earnings is dependent on our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Changes in the composition of our shareholdings could have an impact on our classification. If our classification were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn on the Company’s business. A non-U.S. corporation, such as ours, will constitute a “controlled foreign corporation” or “CFC” for U.S. federal income tax purposes if its largest U.S. shareholders (i.e., those owning 10 percent or more of its shares) together own more than 50 percent of the shares outstanding. If the IRS or a court determined that we were a CFC, then each of our U.S. shareholders who own (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock on the last day of our taxable year would be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our “subpart F income” (and the subpart F income of any our subsidiaries determined to be a CFC) for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC. In addition, any gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s proportionate share of our and our CFC subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder’s holding period of the shares while we are a CFC. 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 22 ITEM 