D. Risk Factors This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. Risks Relating to Our Business The markets for our products change rapidly and demand for new products is difficult to predict. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. For example, the migration to higher line rate Ethernet solutions, the adaptation of new bus interfaces and increased use of emerging technologies such as Cloud, Virtualization and SDN, cause our OEM customers to demand such new products and technologies. In the event that our OEM customers decide to begin using new technologies, we may not be able to develop products for the new technologies in a timely manner. Our OEM customers may also select competing products despite our ability to develop products incorporating new technologies. For Example, with the shift towards running applications in the Cloud we anticipate that the demand will grow for add-on adapters and products which address the challenges present by the Cloud, such as power, heat and space limitations in such environments which increase the need for essential building blocks in generic severs, which can be potentially served by our products. However there is no assurance that our OEM customers will buy such products from us or that we will continue to generate significant sales in this area or other areas in which we operate. Consequently, we may suffer from reduced sales to such OEMs and accumulate unusable inventory which can be used only with older technologies. We intend to continue investing in product and technology development. Although we have recorded growing sales of our line of products (to which the majority of our revenues are attributable), there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the marketing of our current products and in developing, manufacturing and marketing enhanced and new products in a timely manner. The market for cloud-based and cloud-focused solutions is at a relatively early stage of development, and if it develops in ways that are different from what we anticipate or expect, our business could be harmed. The market for cloud-based solutions is at an early stage relative to physical appliances and on-premise networking solutions, and these types of deployments may not achieve or sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance, or may end up being implemented differently than current expectations in the market place. 10 In view of an anticipated increase in Cloud-based data centers utilizing virtualization and SDN, the systems are expected to be increasingly based on generic server platforms. These platforms will all need offload capabilities in order to address the performance challenges realized due to the huge amount of traffic, the high volume of data, the need to encrypt such data, the need to run in virtualized environment, which by itself is a challenge for the server CPU, and the need to include switching within the server for high efficiency SDN. We anticipate that consequently the demand for add-on adapters which address these challenges will grow. Power, heat and space limitations in such environments increase the need for hardware accelerators. Such systems will require essential building blocks in their own generic severs, which can be served by our products. While we believe that we address the above needs with a comprehensive suite of products, many factors may affect the market acceptance of cloud-based and cloud-focused solutions, and/or the acceptance of add-on products incorporated into such solutions. Some these factors include the possibility of seeing a reduction in the number of physical servers and appliances required by the providers of cloud based or virtualized solutions, or the evolving of different architecture designs which provide for functionality our products offer without the need for add on adapters. If significant organization providing Cloud based solutions or other virtualized networks do not perceive the benefits of our cloud-focused and virtualized network based solutions, or if our competitors or new market entrants are able to develop solutions for this segment that do not require add on products such as ours, or offer features that are, or are perceived to be, more effective than ours, this trend of moving towards the cloud but without needing our products for use in such virtualization environments would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market for our products is highly competitive and some of our competitors may be better positioned than we are. The market for our products is highly competitive. We face competition from numerous companies, some of which are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have greater financial, production and marketing resources than we do. For example, in the server networking industry for which we have developed our Server Adapters, our main competitor is Intel. Recently, Intel has released several versions of 10Gbps bypass cards which can become products which compete with our Server Adapters which feature bypass functionality. There may be other solutions which might also compete with our other products. We cannot guarantee that our present or contemplated products will continue to be distinguishable from those of our competitors or that the marketplace will find our products preferable to those of our competitors. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that competitive pressures will not result in price reductions that could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and the results of our operations. 11 We may need to invest significantly in research and development and business development in order to diversify our product offering and enter new markets. Most of our revenues are generated from the sale of our networking and data infrastructure solution products. The technology industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. While these changes could lead to a reduction in the demand for our existing products, they could also create an opportunity for us to expand our product offering to our existing customers and to new customers. Accordingly, our future success may depend on our ability to diversify our product offering and enter new markets, which could involve numerous risks, including: · Substantial research and development and business development expenditures, which could divert funds from other corporate uses and/or have a significant negative effect on our short-term results; · Diversion of management’s attention from our core business; and · Entering markets in which we have little or no experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products and no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter new markets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulty in developing new, commercially successful products at acceptable release times. We conduct extensive research, development and engineering activities. Our efforts emphasize the development of new products, cost reduction of current products, and the enhancement of existing products, generally in response to rapidly changing customer preferences, technologies and industry standards. We cannot guarantee the continued success of our latest lines of products, which include Multi-Port Ethernet Server Networking Adapters and Bypass Adapters, Smart Adapters, Intelligent bypass switches, and SETAC, nor that they will be continue to be widely accepted by the marketplace or that any of our ongoing development efforts will result in other commercially successful products, that such products will be released in a timely manner or that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. 12 Significant growth in markets demanding functionality similar to the functionality offered by certain of our products may cause manufacturers to integrate such characteristics into server motherboards or increase the market share of appliances that already have such functionality in-built, eliminating the need for our add-on products. A significant portion of our products sold are add-on adapters that are added to existing servers in order to improve their functionality. If demand for improved functionality similar to the functionality of our add-on adapters increases significantly, server manufacturers may begin incorporating such functionality as a part of the basic design of their servers, thereby eliminating the need to achieve such functionality through add-on adapters. Furthermore, the market share of special purpose appliances that already have such functionality built-in may increase, consequently reducing the market share of solutions based on servers with add-on adapters. We cannot assure you that such a trend will not occur in connection with our add-on adapters or any of our other products. Such a trend would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our OEM customers may replace the appliances they currently use with appliances that do not require our cards or incorporate cards other than ours. Many of the OEMs that use appliances which include our cards do so for a few years, and then consider migration to newer generations of appliances. We cannot guarantee that our cards will be needed or selected for such new appliances or compatible with them. A decision by a current OEM customer or customers to select a new appliance without including our cards in such new appliance may have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. We may experience difficulty in developing solutions for appliances with proprietary interfaces which may be used by some of our potential customers. The market for networking appliances includes appliances that make use of proprietary interfaces. These appliances are offered to our potential customers in addition to the customary server-based appliances which use standard interfaces. Our potential customers may decide to use appliances with proprietary interfaces instead of the customary server-based appliances for which several manufacturers may provide add-on cards. There could be no assurance that we would be able to develop non-standard add-on cards for appliances with proprietary interfaces or, if we are successful in developing such cards, that manufacturers of the proprietary interfaces or the customers electing to use these interfaces will make use of our cards in such non-standard environments. Our ability to accurately forecast future sales is severely limited due to the short lead time of customer orders. As a result of the short lead time for firm purchase orders, we are unable to accurately forecast future revenues from product sales. As a result, even dramatic fluctuation in revenue (whether increase or decrease) might not be detected until the very end of a financial quarter, which may not enable us to monitor costs in a timely manner to compensate for such fluctuation. 13 The short lead time of customer orders combined with the long lead time of our suppliers when ordering certain components for our products could result in either a surplus or lack of sufficient supplies, and impact negatively on our finances. While we are generally required to fill orders for our products within one or two weeks following the receipt of a firm purchase order, we must place orders of certain components for our products between sixteen and twenty weeks prior to delivery. As a result, we must have a significant amount of components in our inventory to be able to meet our best forecasts of projected purchase orders as opposed to on the basis of firm purchase orders. In the event that firm purchase orders are significantly lower than such forecasts, a significant part of our inventory will not be used and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls and in the event that firm purchase orders exceed such forecasts, we will not be able to fill such purchase orders which may lead to the loss of business from a customer. The loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on a small amount of customers for our products. Our top three customers accounted for approximately 50% of our revenues in 2013 (out of which our top customer accounted for approximately 33% of our revenues in 2013). We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Loss or cancellation of business from, significant changes in deliveries to, or decreases in the prices of services sold to, one or more of our key customers has, in the past, significantly reduced our revenues for a reporting period and could, in the future, harm our margins, financial condition and business. The loss or ineffectiveness of any of our original equipment manufacturer relationships or a reduction of purchase orders or sales efforts by such original equipment manufacturers may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our sales and marketing strategy is to develop and maintain strategic relationships with leading original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in the servers industry and server-based systems industry, which integrate our products into their systems. These OEMs are not within our control, are not obligated to purchase our products, and may select other products that may compete with our lines of products. A reduction in their sales efforts or discontinuance of sales of our products by our OEMs could lead to reduced sales and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Use of OEMs also entails the risk that they will build up inventories in anticipation of a growth in sales. If such growth does not occur as anticipated, such OEMs may substantially decrease the amount of products ordered in subsequent quarters or discontinue product orders. The termination or loss of either one of our key OEM relationships or several OEM relationships at approximately the same time, without being able to compensate this loss with sales to other OEM customers might have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 14 We are dependent on key personnel. Our success has been, and will be, dependent to a large degree on our ability to retain the services of key personnel and to attract additional qualified personnel in the future. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain key personnel in the future and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to prevent others from claiming that we have infringed their proprietary rights. We cannot guarantee that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. The cost of responding to claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Significant and protracted litigation may be necessary to determine the scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Although we believe that all our products use only our intellectual property, or intellectual property which is properly licensed to us, in the event that any infringement claim is brought against us and infringement is proven, we could be required to discontinue the use of the relevant technology, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, to incur significant litigation damages, costs and expenses, to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the alleged infringing technology and to pay royalties to use such licenses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to develop any such alternative technologies or obtain any such licenses on terms commercially acceptable to us. On March 2, 2012 Internet Machines LLC, a Texas limited liability company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (the “Court”) against numerous defendants (including many switch manufacturers) with respect to certain patents for switches, and included our US subsidiary amongst the list of defendants named in such lawsuit. The lawsuit claims that the defendants have infringed certain patents purported to be owned by Internet Machines LLC and seeks unspecified compensation for damages as well as injunctive relief. The defendants filed answers and counterclaims to the complaint asserting that they do not infringe any claims of the asserted patents and the claims of the patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. While one of our switch suppliers (which is also named as a defendant in the aforesaid lawsuit) has agreed to indemnify us with respect to certain liabilities, there is no certainty that we will ultimately be able to collect all or any amounts under such indemnity should we be found liable under the lawsuit. On September 4, 2012, the Court granted the defendants' motion to stay the pending litigation. We are unable at this time to assess the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or range of potential loss. Although in the past we have resolved a claim of infringement through a license agreement, the terms of which did not have a material effect on our business, any infringement claim or other litigation against us, including a successful pursuit of the aforesaid claim recently filed against our US subsidiary, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. While there are no other lawsuits or other claims currently pending against us regarding the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others, we have been a party to such claims in the past and may be party to such claims in the future. 15 We may not be able to protect our intellectual proprietary rights. Our success, ability to compete, and future revenue growth are dependent and will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. Any of our existing, acquired, or future patents or other rights to our intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. In order to establish and protect the technology we use in our products, we primarily rely on a combination of non-disclosure agreements and technical measures, and to a lesser degree on patents. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, key consultants and other third parties with whom we conduct business. In addition, our employees and key consultants involved in the development of our technologies are required to sign non-compete and invention assignment agreements. We also control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Despite perceived exclusive access to any intellectual property rights obtained via acquisition, and our best efforts during any such acquisition process to secure such rights, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization, or others may assert infringement claims against us with respect to a product of ours which utilizes such acquired intellectual property rights. We believe that the measures we take afford only limited protection, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or the independent development of similar technologies by others. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business and results of operations. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights. 16 Further, we cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. Our confidentiality and non-competition agreements may not be enforceable and our proprietary technology may not remain a secret. Others may develop similar technology and use this technology to compete with us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, former employees and other unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Loss of our sources for certain key components could harm our operations. Although we generally use standard parts and components for our products, certain key components used in our products are currently available from only one source, and others are available from a limited number of sources. We believe that we maintain a sufficient inventory of these components to protect against delays in deliveries. However, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience delays in the supply of critical components in the future or that we will have a sufficient inventory of critical components at such time to produce products at full capacity. For example, a key component in many of our cards is manufactured by Intel, one of our competitors. While we have not encountered difficulties in purchasing such components from Intel's distributors, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to purchase such components without delays or at reasonable prices. In the event that we are not able to purchase key components of our products from our limited sources, or are able to purchase these key components only under unreasonable terms, we may need to redesign certain products. We cannot guarantee that we will have adequate resources for such a redesign or that such a redesign will be successful. Such inability to obtain alternative resources or to successfully redesign our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inability to receive information from our key component manufacturers could affect our ability to develop new products required by our OEM customers and by the industry in which we operate. Our products are based on networking controllers which are manufactured by either Broadcom, Cavium or Intel. In order to design our products we need to receive information that enables us to design products with the use of such controllers. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive all the information required for designing products with the use of new controllers continuously released by the above mentioned companies. Intel and Cavium are our competitors and Broadcom may also compete with our products. Such competition may also affect their decisions regarding the sharing of information with us. The inability to obtain such information may adversely affect our ability to develop new products required by our OEM customers and by the industry in which we operate. 17 Our networking and data infrastructure solution products which are sold by us mainly to OEMs, are characterized by long sales cycles. We sell our networking and data infrastructure solution products mainly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. The decision making process of our OEM customers includes several time consuming processes, resulting from the critical importance of our products in their systems. They need to define the required configuration of their server system/appliance, derive the need and type of adapters or other add-on products, evaluate our products, intensively test and qualify our products and then (or in parallel) negotiate the terms for a purchase. It may therefore take 12 months or more from the time we first contact a prospective customer before such customer implements our cards in its system constituting what is known as a Design Win. Additionally, once a Design Win for one of our products is secured, our sales of these products typically involve significant capital investment decisions by prospective end customers, as well as a significant amount of time to educate such end customers as to the benefits of systems and appliances that include our products. As a result, before purchasing systems and appliances which include our products (and consequently facilitating sales of our products), companies spend a substantial amount of time performing internal reviews and obtaining capital expenditure approvals, consequently lengthening the period of time required for a Design Win to mature into consistent sales. These long sales cycles make it difficult to predict when and to what extent discussions with potential customers will materialize into sales and could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate widely from period to period. In addition, our allocation of significant resources to potential sales opportunities that do not materialize into sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may make acquisitions or pursue mergers that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we have sought and may continue to seek to invest in or acquire other businesses, technologies or assets, and we may enter into joint ventures or other strategic relationships with third parties. We may assume liabilities, incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets or realize large and immediate write-offs in connection with future acquisitions. In addition, the future valuation of these acquisitions may decrease from the market price paid by us, which may result in the writing-off, or impairment, of the relevant assets. In addition, our operation of any acquired or merged businesses, technologies or assets could involve numerous risks, including: · Post-merger integration problems resulting from the combination of any acquired operations with our own operations or from the combination of two or more operations into a new merged entity; 18 · Diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · Substantial expenditures, which could divert funds from other corporate uses; · Entering markets in which we have little or no experience; and · Loss of key employees of the acquired operations. We cannot be certain that any acquisition or merger will be successful. If the operation of the business of any acquisition or merger disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. In addition, even if we successfully integrate the acquired business with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of the acquisition. We may be subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and customer initiatives relating to the environment, conflict minerals or other social responsibility issues, which may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (“DRC”) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such "conflict" minerals. These requirements will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such “conflict” minerals originate from the DRC. The implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals such as cassiterite, wolframite, coltan, and gold which are used in the manufacture of certain components used in our products. As a result, this could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us DRC "conflict free" components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC "conflict free" products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. 19 Risks Relating to Operations in Israel and Internationally The tax benefits available to us under Israeli law require us to meet several conditions and apply plan administration rules, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. Our production facilities have been granted “Benefited Enterprise” status and since and as such, we are entitled to certain tax benefits. To be eligible for these tax benefits, we must meet conditions and apply plan administration rules. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might already have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels, or at any level. In recent years, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate some of these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of these benefits may increase our income tax expense in the future. To the best of our knowledge, to date we have met the conditions for benefits under our “Benefited Enterprise” program in all material respects. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to meet such conditions in the future. See Item 10 "Additional Information – Taxation – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959" for more information about our "Benefited Enterprise" status. The political environment and hostilities in Israel could harm our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a state of hostility has existed between Israel and the Arab countries in the region. This state of hostility has varied in degree and intensity over time. There has also been conflict and unrest between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and certain terrorist groups operating within the Palestinian Authority and Lebanon. In addition, internal conflicts within neighboring counties such as Egypt and Syria also affect Israel, both directly and indirectly. A significant increase in violence began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity through 2013, such as Israel’s war with the Hizbullah militant group in July and August of 2006. In December 2008 and January 2009 there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which resulted in missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel. Similar hostilities accompanied by missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel, as well at areas more centrally located near Tel Aviv and at areas surrounding Jerusalem, occurred during November 2012. Since February 2011, Egypt has experienced political turbulence and an increase in terrorist activity in the Sinai peninsula, following the resignation of Hosni Mubarak as president. This included protests throughout Egypt, and the appointment of a military regime in his stead, followed by the elections to parliament which brought groups affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood (which had been previously outlawed by Egypt), and the subsequent overthrow of this elected government by a military regime instead. Such political turbulence and violence may damage peaceful and diplomatic relations between Israel and Egypt, and could affect the region as a whole. Similar civil unrest and political turbulence has occurred in other countries in the region, including Syria which shares a common border with Israel, and is affecting the political stability of those countries. Since April 2011, internal conflict in Syria has escalated, and evidence indicates that chemical weapons have been used in the region. Intervention may be contemplated by outside parties in order to prevent further chemical weapon use. This instability and any intervention may lead to deterioration of the political and economic relationships that exist between the State of Israel and some of these countries, and may have the potential for additional conflicts in the region. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza, Hezbollah in Lebanon. Iran is known to support the government of Syria in its battles against various rebel militia groups in Syria. These situations may potentially escalate in the future to more violent events which may affect Israel and us. Furthermore, several countries still restrict trade with Israeli companies and additional countries may impose such restrictions as a result of changes in the military and/or political conditions in Israel and/or the surrounding countries, which may limit our ability to make sales in, or purchase components from, those countries. Any future armed conflict, political instability, continued violence in the region or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. While such hostilities did not in the past have a material adverse impact on our business, we cannot guarantee that hostilities will not be renewed and have such an effect in the future. The political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital or obtain components used in our products. Since many of our facilities are located in Israel, we could experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities. Any insurance coverage we may have may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any future armed conflict or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. 20 Many of our employees in Israel are required to perform military reserve duty. All non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40, or older for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations, as well as certain female adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. In recent years, there have been significant call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. Exchange rate fluctuations and international risks could increase the cost of our operations. Substantially all of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and may be subject to government controls and other risks, including, in some cases, export licenses, federal restrictions on export, currency fluctuations, political instability, trade restrictions, and changes in tariffs and freight rates. Our dollar costs in Israel will increase further to the extent that inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar, if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel or if the dollar devalues against the NIS. 21 We are affected by worldwide downturns in industries based on technology. The volatility in the securities markets discussed above and its effect on high-technology companies may have a ripple effect on our performance. In the downturn which the markets experienced beginning in 2001, technology companies dealing in communications and computers were severely affected and some were forced to cease operations. We felt the effects of this downturn in 2001 through 2003. We were also affected by the downturn in the economic markets which began in 2008, posing a risk to industries based on technology as well as the overall economy. We can give no assurance that our results will not be affected on a going forward basis by any economic downturns. General economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s results. Uncertainty in global economic conditions, including any disruption in financial and credit markets, pose a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our and our customers’ products, as well as our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the global economic situation worsens, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services, or supplier or customer disruptions, which could reduce our revenues or our ability to collect our accounts receivable and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Ordinary Shares We are affected by volatility in the securities markets. The securities markets in general have experienced volatility which has particularly affected the securities of many high-technology companies and particularly those in the fields of communications, software and internet, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies and may cause difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and develop their businesses. Such difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general may affect our financial condition and results. 22 We may experience a decline in our share price and there is no guarantee that our share price will rise at all. Our share price fell during recent periods of uncertainty in global economic conditions and we expect it to continue to be affected by such uncertainty to the extent that it continues. We cannot assure you that our share price will stabilize, or not decline, in the coming fiscal year. We may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future. We have announced a dividend policy for distributing up to 50% of our annual distributable profits as a dividend. Our Board of Directors recently declared a dividend for 2012 which was distributed in April 2013, as well as for 2013 which will be distributed in April 2014. Our ability to distribute dividends in the future may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. As part of the stated dividend policy, the Company's Board of Directors reserves the right to declare additional dividend distributions, to change the rate of dividend distributions (either as a policy or on a one-time basis), to cancel a specific distribution or to cancel the policy as a whole at any time, at its sole discretion. Any dividend will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at the time as our board of directors may consider relevant. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be restricted by instruments governing any of our obligations. We are restricted by Israeli law to pay dividends in any fiscal year only out of “profits,” as defined by the Israeli Companies Law, unless otherwise authorized by an Israeli court, and provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue paying dividends or increase our payment of dividends in the future, nor is there any assurance that our Board of Directors will not change our dividend policy in the future. If we are unable to fulfill our stated dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors in our shares, the market price of our shares may be negatively affected and the value of our shareholders’ investment may be reduced. See “Item 8.A Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information”, under the caption “8A – Dividend Policy” for additional information regarding the payment of dividends. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets takes place in different currencies (dollars on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 23 The trading volume of our shares has been low in the past and may be low in the future, resulting in lower than expected market prices for our shares. Our shares have been traded at low volumes in the past and may be traded at low volumes in the future for reasons related or unrelated to our performance. This low trading volume may result in lower than expected market prices for our ordinary shares and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares for more than they paid for them. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. All of our executive officers and all of our directors are non-residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any such persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce U.S. final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters obtained after due trial before a court of competent jurisdiction (according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel) which enforces similar Israeli judgments, provided that the requisite procedural and legal requirements are adhered to. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in NIS, which can then be converted into foreign currency at the rate of exchange of such foreign currency on the date of payment. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in NIS (without any linkage to a foreign currency) ordinarily will be linked to the Israeli consumer price index plus interest at the annual statutory rate prevailing at such time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 24 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. We will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro-rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered to be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value and including our pro-rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a U.S. Holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark-to-market” election, “excess distributions” to a U.S. Holder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. Holder on a disposition or our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends, to the extent that they constituted excess distributions, would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation, and certain "interest" charges may apply. In addition, gains on the sale of our shares would be treated in the same way as excess distributions. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. As a result of our substantial cash position, if the value of our shares declines, there is a substantial risk that we will be classified as a PFIC under the asset test described above. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. In light of the uncertainties described above, no assurance can be given that we will not be a PFIC in any year. A U.S. Holder who makes a QEF election is taxed currently on such holder's proportionate share of our earnings. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a U.S. Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the U.S. Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. U.S. Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC, subject to exceptions for U.S. Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election, or certain other elections. We do not currently intend to prepare or provide the information that would enable you to make a Qualified Election Fund election. Accordingly, our shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of PFIC rules. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by disruptions in the financial and credit markets. Our investment portfolio currently consists of corporate debt securities and government debt securities, which the Company classified at December 31, 2013 as "held-to-maturity". As of December 31, 2013, we hold approximately US$ 39.2 million in corporate debt securities and government debt securities. Due to possible significant disruptions in the financial and credit markets, the corporate debt securities in our portfolio are subject to a possible increased risk of default due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other factors affecting the issuers of those securities. In addition, securities in our portfolio are subject to other risks, such as credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the recent market disruptions, and which may impair the assets. We may be required to adjust the carrying value of our investment securities due to a default, lack of liquidity or other event, if the event constitutes an impairment which is considered to be other-than-temporary. As of December 31, 2013, we were not required to adjust the carrying value of our investment securities since there were no other-than-temporary impairments. 25 This loss would be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations which could materially adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 