ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The ownership of our common shares involves a number of risks and uncertainties. When evaluating us and our business before making a decision regarding investment in our securities, potential investors should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with other information contained in this report. If any of the events or circumstances described below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently think are not significant may also impact our business operations. We rely on our chief executive officer and a small number of other key senior managers to operate our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have a large group of senior managers in our business. The loss of our chief executive officer or any of our senior managers could have a material adverse effec t on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to hire or relocate and integrate suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all. Further, in order to continue to grow our business, we will need to expand our senior management team. We may be unable to attract or retain these persons. This could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and to satisfy our customers’ fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products for specific selling seasons, especially during our third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Vendor production delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas as well as customs clearance are on-going risks of our business. We also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution centers to customers, and we rely on the shipping arrangements our suppliers have made in the case of products shipped directly to retailers from the suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers and increased security restrictions, associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products in a timely and effective manner to retailers could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders. To make our distribution operations more efficient, we have consolidated many of our U.S. distribution, receiving and storage functions into our Southaven, Mississippi distribution center. Approximately 69 percent of our consolidated sales volume shipped from this facility in fiscal 2008. For this reason, any disruption in our distribution process in this facility, even for a few days, could adversely effect our business and operating results. Additionally, our Mississippi distribution center operations have grown to a level where we may incur capacity constraints during our peak shipping season, which occurs during our third fiscal quarter each year. These and other factors described above could cause delays in delivery of our products and increases in shipping and storage costs that could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our projections of sales and earnings are highly subjective and our future sales and earnings could vary in a material amount from our projections. Most of our major customers purchase our products electronically through electronic data interchange and expect us to promptly deliver products from our existing inventories to the customers’ retail stores or distribution centers. This method of ordering products allows our customers to immediately respond to changes in demands of their retail customers. From time to time, we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not require long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer 13 Table of Contents order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our future sales and related earnings. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their retail customers and due to other risks described in this report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make inventory management more difficult. Because our ability to forecast sales is highly subjective, there is a risk that our future sales and earnings could vary materially from our projections. Our sales are dependent on sales to several large customers and the loss of, or substantial decline in sales to a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A few customers account for a substantial percentage of our sales. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we lost all or a portion of the sales to these customers. In particular, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including its affiliate, SAM’S Club) and sales to Target Corporation accounted for approximately 19 percent and 9 percent, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal 2008. While only one customer accounted for ten percent or more of net sales in fiscal 2008, our top 5 customers accounted for approximately 44 percent of fiscal 2008 net sales. We expect customer concentrations will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales. Although we have long-standing relationships with our major customers, we generally do not have written agreements that require these customers to buy from us or to purchase a minimum amount of our products. A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key customers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our customers, such as on-hand inventory reductions, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding potential liquidity issues with a significant customer, see “Current and Future Capital Needs”, under Item 7.” Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note (19) to the consolidated financial statements. Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect our gross profit and results of operations. In recent years, we have observed a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drug store channels and toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If we do not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from us. A reduction in the demand of our products by these mass merchandisers and the costs of complying with customer business demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on third party manufacturers, most of which are located in the Far East, and any inability to obtain products from such manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East, principally in China. This exposes us to risks associated with doing business globally, including: changing international political relations; labor availability and cost; changes in laws, including tax laws, regulations and treaties; changes in labor laws, regulations, and policies; changes in customs duties and other trade barriers; changes in shipping costs; currency exchange fluctuations; local political unrest; an extended and complex transportation cycle; and the availability and cost of raw materials and merchandise. The political, legal and cultural environment in the Far East is rapidly evolving, and any change that impairs our ability to obtain products from such manufacturers, or to obtain products at marketable rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have relationships with over 200 third-party manufacturers. During fiscal 2008, the top two manufacturers fulfilled approximately 25 percent of our product requirements. Over the same period, our top five suppliers fulfilled approximately 43 percent of our product requirements. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories. We may also find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in China has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. China has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance that labor will continue to be available in China at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on product costs in China. Labor shortages in China could result in supply delays and disruptions and drive a substantial increase in labor costs. Similarly, evolving government labor regulations and associated compliance standards could cause our product costs to rise or could cause manufacturing partners we rely on to exit the business. This could have an adverse impact on product availability and quality. The Chinese economy has experienced rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. Higher general inflation rates will require manufacturers to continue to seek increased product prices. During fiscal 2008, the Chinese Renminbi appreciated approximately 9 percent with respect to the U.S. Dollar. To the extent the Renminbi continues to appreciate with respect to the U.S. Dollar, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases, and this could adversely impact profitability. The Company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related effects of the product cost increases. Although China currently enjoys “most favored nation” trading status with the U.S., the U.S. government has in the past proposed to revoke such status and to impose higher tariffs on products imported from China. There is no assurance that our business will not be affected by any of the aforementioned risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased cost of sales and certain operating expenses and adversely effect our results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. Our vendors purchase significant amounts of metals and plastics to manufacture our products. They also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in their production processes. The rising cost of fuel may also increase our transportation costs. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a significant portion of our cost of sales and certain operating expenses. Our results of operations have been and could in the future be adversely affected by increases in these costs. We have had some success in implementing price increases or passing on cost increases by moving customers to newer product models with enhancements that justify higher prices and we intend to continue these efforts. We can make no assurances that these efforts will be successful in the future or will materially offset the cost increases we may incur. 15 Table of Contents We hold certain auction rate securities that we may be unable to liquidate at their recorded values or at all due to credit concerns in the U.S. capital markets. Protracted illiquidity and any deterioration in the credit ratings of the issuers, dealers or credit insurers may require us to reclassify these holdings at some point to long-term assets and record impairment charges. For further information, see Notes (1) and (14) to the consolidated financial statements. At February 29, 2008, all of our temporary investments were auction rate notes collateralized by student loans, which had a carrying value of $63,825. Liquidity for these securities is normally dependent on an auction process that provides an opportunity to sell the security and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, ranging from 7 to 35 days. An auction fails when there is insufficient demand. However, this does not represent a default by the issuer of the security. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates reset based on a formula contained in the security, and this rate is generally higher than the current market rate. Recent credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate our auction rate securities. At this time, there is a very limited demand for these securities and limited acceptable alternatives to liquidate such securities. Based on current market conditions, we believe it is likely that auctions of our holdings in these securities will be unsuccessful in the near term, resulting in us continuing to hold securities beyond their next scheduled auction reset dates and limiting the short-term liquidity of these investments. Management intends to reduce our holdings in these securities as circumstances allow, but believes we have sufficient liquidity from operating cash flows and available financial sources, including our revolving credit facility, which we believe will continue to provide sufficient capital resources to fund our foreseeable short and long-term liquidity requirements. While these failures in the auction process have affected our ability to access these funds in the near term, based on the related information currently at hand, we do not believe that any of our holdings of these securities are impaired. If the issuers and brokers are unable to successfully close future auctions, and their credit ratings deteriorate or the credit ratings of the credit insurers deteriorate, the Company may be required to reclassify its holdings in these securities to long-term assets and to record an impairment charge on these investments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant impairment charges. A substantial portion of our long-term assets consist of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as a result of past acquisitions. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future events may occur that could adversely affect the reported value of the Company’s assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions to exit a business made in response to changes in economic, political and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, or our internal expectations with regard to future revenue growth and the assumptions we make when performing our annual impairment reviews. As a result of such circumstances, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For further information, including estimated impairment charges expected in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, see “Results of Operations” under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We materially rely on licensed trademarks, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are materially dependent on our licensed trademarks as a substantial portion of our sales revenue comes from selling products under licensed trademarks. As a result, we are materially dependent upon the continued use of such trademarks, particularly the Vidal Sassoon® and Revlon® trademarks. Actions taken by licensors and other third parties could diminish greatly the value of any of our licensed trademarks. If we were unable to sell products under these licensed trademarks or the value of the trademarks were diminished by the licensor due to any inability to perform under the terms of the agreements or other reasons, or due to the actions of third parties, the effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be both negative and material. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to our dependence on the strength of retail economies. Our business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Europe, Latin America and the Far East. These retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest. The impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact our business. In recent years, the retail industry in the U.S. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition among retailers. Because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, we must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of our customers. A significant weakening of retail economies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To compete successfully, we must continually develop and introduce innovative new products to meet changing consumer preferences. Our long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on our ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that meet changing consumer preferences and take advantage of opportunities sooner. We face the risk that our competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with our products. Our core initiatives include fostering our culture of innovation and new product development, enhancing and extending our existing product categories and developing new allied product categories. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing new products on a continuing basis and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. If we are unable to develop and introduce a continuing stream of new products, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated or we may not be able to identify suitable new acquisition opportunities, which may constrain our prospects for future growth and profitability and adversely affect the price of our common shares. We are constantly looking for opportunities to make complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions. These acquisitions, if not favorably received by consumers, shareholders, analysts, and others in the investment community, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. In addition, any acquisition involves numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel associated with the acquisitions; · difficulties in integrating distribution channels; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · difficulties in transitioning and preserving customer, contractor, supplier and other important third party relationships; · difficulties realizing anticipated cost savings, synergies and other benefits related to an acquisition; · risks associated with subsequent operating asset write-offs, contingent liabilities, and impairment of related acquired intangible assets; · risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited experience; and · potential loss of key employees associated with the acquisitions. 17 Table of Contents Any difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have incurred debt to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. As a result of our debt obligations, we are operating under substantially more leverage and higher interest costs. Our debt has added constraints on our ability to operate our business, including but not limited to: · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, or other purposes could be limited; · an increased portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to service our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations; · a significant portion of our debt is fixed or effectively fixed through the use of interest rate swaps and these rates may produce higher interest expense than would be available with floating rate debt, in the event of decreases in market interest rates; · our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and conditions in the industries in which we operate; and · our debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Significant restrictive covenants include limitations on, among other things, our ability under certain circumstances to: · incur additional debt, including guarantees; · incur certain types of liens; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; · enter into substantial new lines of business; and · enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates. We rely on our central Global Enterprise Resource Planning Systems and other peripheral information systems. Interruptions in the operation of our computerized systems or other information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We conduct most of our businesses under one integrated Global Enterprise Resource Planning System, which we implemented in September 2004. Most of our operations are dependent on this system. Any failures or disruptions in this system could cause considerable disruptions to our business and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We remain in the process of transitioning our Mexican operations to our global information system. This transition has experienced delays as a result of the refocus of our priorities and internal resources on the integration of the Belson Products business, a project which was completed in fiscal 2008. As a result, the transition by our Mexican operations to our global information system is currently not expected to be substantially complete until later in fiscal 2009. We continuously make adjustments to improve the effectiveness of our systems. Complications resulting from such adjustments could potentially cause considerable disruptions to our business. Application program bugs, system 18 Table of Contents conflict crashes, user error, data integrity issues, customer data conflicts and related integration issues all pose significant risks. To support new technologies, we continue to support a growing technology infrastructure base. Increased computing capacity, power requirements, back-up capacities, broadband network infrastructure and increased security needs are all potential areas for disruption or failure. We rely on certain outside vendors to assist us with implementation and enhancements and other vendors to assist us in maintaining some of our infrastructure. Should any of these vendors fail to perform as expected, it could adversely affect our service levels and threaten our ability to conduct business. Natural disasters or other extraordinary events may disrupt our information systems and other infrastructure, and our data recovery processes may not be sufficient to protect against loss. Any interruption or loss of data in our information or logistical systems could materially impact our ability to procure our products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution centers, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. These and other factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A breach of our computer security systems, and unauthorized intrusion could subject us to fraudulent use of sensitive information and/or damage to critical data and systems. Such activity could subject us to litigation and various other claims and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the reputation of our business. Information systems require constant updates to their security policies and hardware systems to reduce the risk of unauthorized access, malicious destruction of data, or information theft. We believe we have taken steps designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program to continue to do so. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data compromise. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Any such compromises or breach could cause interruptions in our operations and might require us to spend significant management time and money investigating the event and dealing with local and federal law enforcement. In addition, we could become the subject of litigation and various claims from our customers, employees, suppliers, service providers and shareholders. Regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of these matters, litigation and proceedings of this type are expensive to respond to and defend, and we could devote substantial resources and time to responding to and defending them. The ultimate resolution of any such litigation, claims and investigations could cause damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Audits and related disputes with taxing authorities, tax compliance and the impact of changes in tax law could have an adverse impact on our business. We are involved in a tax audits and related disputes with various taxing jurisdictions. We believe that we have complied with all applicable reporting and tax payment obligations and disagree with taxing authority positions on these various issues. We are vigorously defending our tax positions through all available administrative and judicial avenues. For more information about tax audits and related disputes, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” and Note (8) to the consolidated financial statements. Although the final resolution of these disputes is uncertain and involves unsettled areas of the law, based on currently available information, we have established reserves for our best estimate of the probable tax liability for these matters. The resolution of the issues may result in tax liabilities that are significantly higher or lower than the reserves established for these matters. An unfavorable resolution on any matter could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents The future impact of tax legislation, regulations or treaties, including any future legislation in the U.S. or abroad that would effect the companies or subsidiaries that comprise our consolidated group is always uncertain. Our ability to respond to such changes so that we maintain favorable tax treatment, the cost and complexity of such compliance, and its impact on our ability to effectively operate in jurisdictions always presents a risk. Favorable tax treatment of our non- U.S. earnings is dependent on our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Changes in the composition of our shareholdings could have an impact on our classification. If our classification were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn on the Company’s business. A non-U.S. corporation, such as ours, will constitute a “controlled foreign corporation” or “CFC” for U.S. federal income tax purposes if its largest U.S. shareholders (i.e., those owning 10 percent or more of its shares) together own more than 50 percent of the shares outstanding. If the IRS or a court determined that we were a CFC, then each of our U.S. shareholders who own (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock on the last day of our taxable year would be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our “subpart F income” (and the subpart F income of any our subsidiaries determined to be a CFC) for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC. In addition, any gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s proportionate share of our and our CFC subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder’s holding period of the shares while we are a CFC. We are involved in securities class action litigation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. An agreement in principle has been reached to settle the consolidated class action lawsuits filed on behalf of purchasers of publicly traded securities of the Company against the Company, Gerald J. Rubin, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Thomas J. Benson, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer. In the consolidated action, the plaintiffs alleged violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. The class period stated in the complaint was October 12, 2004 through October 10, 2005. The lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. For further information, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” and Note (10) to the consolidated financial statements. The proposed settlement remains subject to a number of conditions, including court approval following notice to class members. The court has scheduled a hearing for June 19, 2008, where it will consider approving the proposed settlement. Under the proposed settlement, the lawsuit would be dismissed with prejudice in exchange for a cash payment of $4.5 million. The Company’s insurance carrier will pay the settlement amount and the Company’s remaining legal and related fees associated with defending the lawsuit, because the Company has met its self-insured retention obligation. The Company and the two officers of the Company named in the lawsuit continue to deny any and all allegations of wrongdoing, and, if the settlement is approved, they will receive a full release of all claims. The Company cannot make any assurances that the proposed settlement will be concluded or approved by the court. If the proposed settlement is not concluded or approved by the court, additional negotiations or litigation could ensue putting us at risk of a future judgment or settlement that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 21 Table of Contents 