ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The ownership of our common shares involves a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with the other information contained in this report, in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision regarding our securities. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are not significant may also impair our business operations. We rely on key senior management to operate our business; the loss of any of these senior managers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We do not have a large group of senior executives in our business. Accordingly, we depend on a small number of key senior executives. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our key senior executives. The loss of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to find, relocate and integrate adequate replacements for any of these persons. Further, in order to continue to grow our business, we will need to expand our key senior management team. We may be unable to attract or retain these persons. This could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or materially adversely affect the success of our business. We rely on our Global Enterprise Resource Planning System. Our failure to, or delays in, successfully implementing this system, including the consolidation of our inventories in our Southaven, Mississippi distribution facility could have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Our business operations are dependent on our logistical systems, which include our order management system and our computerized warehouse network. These logistical systems depend on our new Global Enterprise Resource Planning System. On September 7, 2004, we implemented our new Global Enterprise Resource Planning System, along with other new technologies. Following the implementation of this new system, most of our businesses (other than our Housewares segment) ran under one integrated information system. We continue to closely monitor the new system and make normal and expected adjustments to improve its effectiveness. Complications resulting from process adjustments could potentially cause considerable disruptions to our business. The change to the new system continues to involve risk. Application program bugs, system conflict crashes, user error, data integrity issues, customer data conflicts and integration issues with certain remaining legacy systems all pose potential risks. Implementing new data standards and converting existing data to accommodate the new system’s requirements have required a significant effort across our entire organization. During the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we began the implementation and transition of our Housewares segment to the new system. The transition was completed late in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006. We continue to implement several significant functionality enhancements related to both the Housewares segment’s and Personal Care segment’s systems. We expect this process will continue during fiscal 2007. This recent transition has included the: • building of a new 1,200,000 square foot distribution facility in Southaven, Mississippi which was completed and outfitted with new materials handling equipment and systems; 13 Table of Contents • transitioning the warehousing, order fulfillment and shipment processes for our OXO products to our new Global Enterprise Resource Planning system; • the physical movement of the existing OXO inventory from its former distribution facility in Illinois to Mississippi; • the physical movement of other inventories from the Company’s existing distribution facilities to the new facility in Southaven, Mississippi; and • testing and implementation of the new distribution facility and systems. During the initial months after the transition of our Housewares segment to the new systems and our distribution facility in Southaven, Mississippi, we experienced warehouse order processing and shipment delays. These delays were the result of both software issues and adapting to the new equipment, new employees, and the operation of our new distribution facility. In response to these issues, management dedicated additional personnel and sent a seasoned operations management team to Southaven, Mississippi to assist local management in resolving technical and operational issues. The delays did cause a backlog in orders and in some cases, order cancellations. We continue to work this backlog down. We have addressed these issues with the affected customers and believe that over the long-term, the strength of our customer relationships will not be affected by the shipment delays. We believe that the impact was immaterial in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006; however, we do expect some impact in the first fiscal quarter of 2007 due to lost revenue and costs associated with related concessions and accommodations to certain customers, and associated start up costs of the distribution center. The extent of the impact on the first fiscal quarter of 2007 is not yet determinable. We continue to work the backlog down, and expect operations to normalize in fiscal 2007. While we believe we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate the recent shipment disruptions arising from the transition of our Housewares segment, there can be no assurance that additional disruptions will not occur. We expect that this and other planned implementations and functional software enhancements will continue to strain our internal resources, could further impact our business, and may result in higher implementation costs and reallocation of human resources. To support these new technologies, we are continuously building and supporting a much larger and more complex information technology infrastructure. Increased computing capacity, power requirements, back-up capacities, broadband network infrastructure and increased security needs are all potential areas for failure and risk. We continue to rely substantially on outside vendors to assist us with implementation and enhancements and will continue to rely on certain vendors to assist us in maintaining some of our infrastructure. Should they fail to perform due to events outside our control, it could affect our service levels and threaten our ability to conduct business. We continue to transition many of these third party services to our in-house staff. The transition from third party services to in-house staffing of such services poses risks that could cause additional business disruptions. Finally, natural disasters may disrupt our infrastructure and our disaster recovery process may not be sufficient to protect against loss. Any interruption in our logistical systems would impact our ability to procure our products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution facilities, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. These and other factors described above could have a material and adverse affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Acquisitions and partnerships may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our common shares. We are constantly looking for opportunities to make additional complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions. To the extent that these acquisitions are not favorably received by consumers, shareholders, analysts, and others in the investment community, the price of our common shares could be adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel associated with the acquisitions, • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and • the potential loss of key employees associated with the acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products, or personnel that we have acquired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our sales are dependent on sales from several large customers and the loss of, or substantial decline in sales to, a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A few customers account for a substantial percentage of our sales. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we lost all or a portion of the sales to these customers. In particular, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and its affiliate, SAM’S Club, and sales to Target Corporation accounted for approximately 22 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal 2006. While no other customers accounted for ten percent or more of net sales, our top 5 customers accounted for approximately 46 percent of fiscal 2006 net sales. Although we have long-standing relationships with our major customers, no contracts require these customers to buy from us, or to purchase a minimum amount of our products. A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key customers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our customers, such as on-hand inventory reductions, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our projections of sales and earnings are highly subjective and our future sales and earnings could vary in a material amount from our projections. Most of our major customers purchase our products electronically through electronic data interchange and expect us to promptly deliver products from our existing inventories to the customers’ retail stores or distribution centers. This method of ordering products allows our customers to immediately respond to changes in demands of their retail customers. From time to time, we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not require long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their retail customers and due to other risks described in this report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make inventory management more difficult. Because our ability to forecast sales is highly subjective, there is a risk that our future sales and earnings could vary materially from our projections. We are dependent on third party manufacturers, most of which are located in the Far East and any inability to obtain products from such manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East. Risks associated with such foreign manufacturing include: changing international political relations; changes in laws, including tax laws, regulations and treaties; changes in labor laws, regulations, and policies; changes in customs duties and other trade barriers; changes in shipping costs; currency exchange fluctuations; local political unrest; an extended and complex transportation cycle; and the availability and cost of raw materials and merchandise. To date, these factors have not significantly affected our production in the Far East. However, any change that impairs our ability to obtain products from such manufacturers, or to obtain products at marketable rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories. We may also find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Distribution difficulties may have an adverse effect on our business by increasing the amount of inventory and the cost of storing inventory. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred substantial debt to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we incurred substantial debt. We incurred additional debt in fiscal 2006. The terms of all our debt agreements are more fully described in Notes (5) and (7) to the consolidated financial statements. As a result of these agreements, we are now operating under substantially more leverage and have begun to incur higher interest costs. This substantial increase in debt has added new constraints on our ability to operate our business, including but not limited to: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, or other purposes, 16 Table of Contents • an increased portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to pay interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations, • a significant portion of our debt has been issued at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in market interest rates, • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and conditions in the industries in which we operate, • the debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Significant restrictive covenants include limitations on, among other things, our ability under certain circumstances to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • incur certain types of liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • enter into substantial new lines of business; and • enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates. Our disagreements with taxing authorities, tax compliance and the impact of changes in tax law could have an adverse impact on our business. As further discussed under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” and Note (8) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we are involved in various tax audits and related disputes over tax issues with the Inland Revenue Department (the “IRD”) in Hong Kong and the United States Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). We believe that we have complied with all applicable reporting and tax payment obligations and disagree with the taxing authorities’ positions on these various issues. We are vigorously defending our tax positions through all available administrative and judicial avenues. Although the final resolution of these disputes is uncertain and involves unsettled areas of the law, based on currently available information, we have provided for our best estimate of the probable tax liability for these matters. While the resolution of the issues may result in tax liabilities that are significantly higher or lower than the reserves established for these matters, management currently believes that any resolution will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity. However, an unfavorable resolution on any matter could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in the quarter in which an adjustment is recorded or the tax is due or paid. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for subsequent developments regarding the pending settlement of Hong Kong tax liabilities for fiscal years 1995 through 1997. The future impact of tax legislation, regulations or treaties, including any future legislation in the United States or abroad that would affect the companies or subsidiaries that comprise our consolidated group is always uncertain. Our ability to respond to such changes so that we maintain favorable tax treatment, the cost and 17 Table of Contents complexity of such compliance, and its impact on our ability to operate in jurisdictions flexibly always poses a risk. Favorable tax treatment of our non-U.S. earnings is dependent on our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Changes in the composition of our shareholdings could have an impact on our classification. If our classification were to change, it could have a material negative effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn on the Company’s business. Because our company is a foreign corporation, we incur risks associated with our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. In order for us to preserve our current tax treatment of our non-U.S. earnings, it is critical that we avoid Controlled Foreign Corporation status. A Controlled Foreign Corporation is a non-U.S. corporation whose largest U.S. shareholders (i.e., those owning 10 percent or more of its shares) together own more than 50 percent of the shares in such corporation. If a change of ownership of the Company were to occur such that the company became a Controlled Foreign Corporation, such a change could have a material negative effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn, on the Company’s business. We materially rely on licensed trademarks, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are materially dependent on our licensed trademarks as a substantial portion of our sales revenue comes from selling products under licensed trademarks. As a result, we are materially dependent upon the continued use of such trademarks, particularly the Vidal Sassoon® and Revlon® trademarks. Actions taken by licensors and other third parties could diminish greatly the value of any of our licensed trademarks. If we were unable to sell products under these licensed trademarks or the value of the trademarks were diminished by the licensor due to their continuing long-term financial capability to perform under the terms of the agreements or other reasons, or due to the actions of third parties, the effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be both negative and material. We have recently become involved in securities class action litigation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As further discussed under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” and Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, two class action lawsuits have been filed and consolidated into one action against the Company and certain officers on behalf of purchasers of publicly-traded securities of the Company alleging violations under the Securities Exchange Act. The lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas and is still in the preliminary stages. The Company intends to defend the foregoing lawsuit vigorously, but, because the lawsuit has been recently filed, the Company cannot predict the outcome and is not currently able to evaluate the likelihood of success or the range of potential loss, if any, that might be incurred in connection with the action. The Company carries insurance that provides an aggregate coverage of $20,000 ($20 million) after a self-insured retention $500 ($500 thousand) for the period during which the claims were filed, but we cannot evaluate at this time whether such coverage will be adequate to cover losses, if any, arising out of the lawsuit. There is a risk that such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources from its business, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. If the Company were to lose on any issues connected with the lawsuit or if the lawsuit is not settled on favorable terms, the judgement or settlement may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 19 Table of Contents 