ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The ownership of our common shares involves a number of risks and uncertainties. When evaluating us and our business before making a decision regarding investment in our securities, potential investors should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with other information contained in this report. If any of the events or circumstances described below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are not significant may also impact our business operations. We rely on our chief executive officer and a small number of other key senior managers to operate our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have a large group of senior managers in our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to hire or relocate and integrate suitable replacements. Further, in order to continue to grow our business, we will need to expand our senior management team. We may be unable to attract or retain these persons. This could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on our central Global Enterprise Resource Planning Systems and other peripheral information systems. Interruptions in the operation of our computerized systems or other information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We conduct most of our businesses under one integrated Global Enterprise Resource Planning System, which we implemented in September 2004. Therefore, our operations are dependent on this system, which includes our order management system and our computerized warehouse management system. Any failures or disruptions in these systems could cause considerable disruptions to our business and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We transitioned a portion of our our Personal Care and Housewares segments to our Global Enterprise Resource Planning System prior to the end of fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2007, we implemented several significant functionality enhancements related to both the Housewares segment’s and Personal Care segment’s information systems. We plan to continue the transition of our Mexican and other key Latin American operations to our global information system over the balance of fiscal 2008 and possibly, fiscal 2009. We also intend to continue to closely monitor our systems and make adjustments to improve their effectiveness. Complications resulting from process adjustments could potentially cause considerable disruptions to our business. Application program bugs, system conflict crashes, user error, data integrity issues, customer data conflicts and integration issues with certain remaining legacy systems all pose significant risks. We expect that these efforts and other implementations and functional software enhancements could require significant internal resources and may result in higher than anticipated implementation costs and reallocation of human resources, which could further negatively impact our business. To support new technologies, we intend to continue to build and support a larger and more complex information technology infrastructure. Increased computing capacity, power requirements, back-up capacities, broadband network infrastructure and increased security needs are all potential areas for disruption or failure. We continue to rely on outside vendors to assist us with implementation and enhancements and will continue to rely on certain vendors to assist us in maintaining some of our infrastructure. Should any of these vendors fail to perform as expected, it could adversely effect our service levels and threaten our ability to conduct business. We also continue to transition certain of these third party services to our in-house staff. This transition process poses risks, however, and failure to effect a smooth transition could cause additional business disruptions. 13 Natural disasters or other extraordinary events may disrupt our information systems and other infrastructure, and our data recovery processes may not be sufficient to protect against loss. Any interruption or loss of data in our information or logistical systems could materially impact our ability to procure our products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution facilities, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. These and other factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A breach of our computer security systems, and unauthorized intrusion could subject us to fraudulent use of sensitive information and/or damage to critical data and systems. Such activity could subject us to litigation and various other claims and have material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the reputation of our business. Information systems require constant updates to their security policies and hardware systems to reduce the risk of unauthorized access, malicious destruction of data, or information theft. We believe we have taken steps designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program to continue to do so. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data compromise. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Any such compromises or breach could cause interruptions in our operations and might require us to spend significant management time and money investigating the event and dealing with local and federal law enforcement. In addition, we could become the subject of litigation and various claims from our customers, employees, suppliers, service providers and shareholders. Regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of these matters, litigation and proceedings of this type are expensive to respond to and defend, and we could devote substantial resources and time to responding to and defending them. The ultimate resolution of any such litigation, claims and investigations could cause damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and to satisfy our customers’ fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products for specific selling seasons, especially during our third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Vendor production delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas as well as customs clearance are on-going risks of our business. We also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution facilities to customers, and we rely on the shipping arrangements our suppliers have made in the case of products shipped directly to retailers from the suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers and increased security restrictions, associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products in a timely and effective manner to retailers could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders. To make our distribution operations more efficient, we have recently consolidated many of our distribution, receiving and storage functions into our Southaven, Mississippi distribution center. We can make no assurances that anticipated cost savings and efficiencies relating to our distribution consolidation will be achieved or that we will not have further integration or implementation issues or delays. Any disruption in our distribution process could adversely effect our business and operating results. 14 Our projections of sales and earnings are highly subjective and our future sales and earnings could vary in a material amount from our projections. Most of our major customers purchase our products electronically through electronic data interchange and expect us to promptly deliver products from our existing inventories to the customers’ retail stores or distribution centers. This method of ordering products allows our customers to immediately respond to changes in demands of their retail customers. From time to time, we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not require long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their retail customers and due to other risks described in this report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make inventory management more difficult. Because our ability to forecast sales is highly subjective, there is a risk that our future sales and earnings could vary materially from our projections. Our sales are dependent on sales to several large customers and the loss of, or substantial decline in sales to a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A few customers account for a substantial percentage of our sales. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we lost all or a portion of the sales to these customers. In particular, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and its affiliate, SAM'S Club, and sales to Target Corporation accounted for approximately 21 percent and 9 percent, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal 2007. While only one customer accounted for ten percent or more of net sales in fiscal 2007, our top 5 customers accounted for approximately 45 percent of fiscal 2007 net sales. We expect customer concentrations will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales. Although we have long-standing relationships with our major customers, no contracts require these customers to buy from us, or to purchase a minimum amount of our products. A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key customers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our customers, such as on-hand inventory reductions, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely effect our gross profit and results of operations. In recent years, we have observed a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drug store channels and toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If we do not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from us. A reduction in the demand of our products by these mass merchandisers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 We are dependent on third party manufacturers, most of which are located in the Far East, and any inability to obtain products from such manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East. Risks associated with such foreign manufacturing include: changing international political relations; changes in laws, labor availability, including tax laws, regulations and treaties; changes in labor laws, regulations, and policies; changes in customs duties and other trade barriers; changes in shipping costs; currency exchange fluctuations; local political unrest; an extended and complex transportation cycle; and the availability and cost of raw materials and merchandise. To date, these factors have not significantly affected our production in the Far East. However, any change that impairs our ability to obtain products from such manufacturers, or to obtain products at marketable rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have relationships with over 200 third-party manufacturers. During fiscal 2007, the top two manufacturers fulfilled approximately 19 percent of our product requirements. Over the same period, our top five suppliers fulfilled approximately 37 percent of our product requirements. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories. We may also find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Distribution difficulties may have an adverse effect on our business by increasing the amount of inventory and the cost of storing inventory. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased cost of sales and certain operating expenses and adversely effect our results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively effect our results of operations. Our vendors purchase significant amounts of metals and plastics to manufacture our products. They also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in their production processes. The rising cost of fuel may also increase our transportation costs. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a significant portion of our cost of sales and certain operating expenses. Our results of operations have been and could in the future be adversely affected by increases in these costs. While we have been successful, in some cases, in implementing price increases or passing on cost increases by moving customers to newer product models with enhancements that justify higher prices, we can make no assurances that these efforts will be successful in the future or materially offset the cost increases we may incur. Acquisitions may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our common shares. We are constantly looking for opportunities to make complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions. These acquisitions, if not favorably received by consumers, shareholders, analysts, and others in the investment community, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. In addition, any acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Belson Products involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel associated with the acquisitions, · difficulties in integrating distribution channels, · the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, 16 · difficulties in transitioning and preserving customer, contractor, supplier and other important third party relationships, · risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited experience, and · the potential loss of key employees associated with the acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered with acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have incurred debt to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. As a result of our debt obligations, we are now operating under substantially more leverage and higher interest costs. This increase in debt has added new constraints on our ability to operate our business, including but not limited to: · our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, or other purposes; · an increased portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to service our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations; · a significant portion of our debt is fixed or effectively fixed through the use of interest rate swaps and these rates may produce higher interest expense than would be available with floating rate debt, in the event of decreases in market interest rates; · our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and conditions in the industries in which we operate; and · our debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Significant restrictive covenants include limitations on, among other things, our ability under certain circumstances to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • incur certain types of liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; • enter into substantial new lines of business; and • enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates. 17 Our disagreements with taxing authorities, tax compliance and the impact of changes in tax law could have an adverse impact on our business. As further discussed under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” and Note (8) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we are involved in various tax audits and related disputes over tax issues with the Inland Revenue Department (the “IRD”) in Hong Kong and the United States Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). We believe that we have complied with all applicable reporting and tax payment obligations and disagree with the taxing authorities’ positions on these various issues. We are vigorously defending our tax positions through all available administrative and judicial avenues. Although the final resolution of these disputes is uncertain and involves unsettled areas of the law, based on currently available information, we have established reserves for our best estimate of the probable tax liability for these matters. While the resolution of the issues may result in tax liabilities that are significantly higher or lower than the reserves established for these matters, management currently believes that any resolution will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity. However, an unfavorable resolution on any matter could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in the quarter in which an adjustment is recorded or the tax is due or paid. The future impact of tax legislation, regulations or treaties, including any future legislation in the United States or abroad that would effect the companies or subsidiaries that comprise our consolidated group is always uncertain. Our ability to respond to such changes so that we maintain favorable tax treatment, the cost and complexity of such compliance, and its impact on our ability to effectively operate in jurisdictions always presents a risk. Favorable tax treatment of our non-U.S. earnings is dependent on our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Changes in the composition of our shareholdings could have an impact on our classification. If our classification were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn on the Company’s business. A non-U.S. corporation, such as ours, will constitute a "controlled foreign corporation" or "CFC" for U.S. federal income tax purposes if its largest U.S. shareholders (i.e., those owning 10 percent or more of its shares) together own more than 50 percent of the shares outstanding. Although we believe that we and our non-U.S. subsidiaries currently are not CFCs, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a court may not concur with our conclusions. If the IRS or a court determined that we were a CFC, then each of our U.S. shareholders who own (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock on the last day of our taxable year would be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our "subpart F income" (and the subpart F income of any our subsidiaries determined to be a CFC) for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC. In addition, gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder's proportionate share of our and our CFC subsidiaries' undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder's holding period of the shares while we are a CFC. We materially rely on licensed trademarks, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are materially dependent on our licensed trademarks as a substantial portion of our sales revenue comes from selling products under licensed trademarks. As a result, we are materially dependent upon the continued use of such trademarks, particularly the Vidal Sassoon® and Revlon® trademarks. Actions taken by licensors and other third parties could diminish greatly the value of any of our licensed trademarks. If we were unable to sell products under these licensed trademarks or the value of the trademarks were diminished by the licensor due to their continuing long-term financial capability to perform under the terms of the agreements or other reasons, or due to the actions of third parties, the effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be both negative and material. 18 We have recently become involved in securities class action litigation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As further discussed under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” and Note (10) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, class action lawsuits have been filed and consolidated into one action against our Company, Gerald J. Rubin, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Thomas J. Benson, our Chief Financial Officer, on behalf of purchasers of our publicly traded securities. The plaintiffs alleged violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, on the grounds that the Company and the two officers engaged in a scheme to defraud our shareholders through the issuance of positive earnings guidance intended to artificially inflate our share price so that Mr. Rubin could sell almost 400,000 of our common shares at an inflated price. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages, interest, fees, costs, an accounting of any alleged insider trading proceeds, and injunctive relief, including an accounting of and the imposition of a constructive trust and/or asset freeze on the defendants’ alleged insider trading proceeds. The class period in the consolidated action is October 12, 2004 through October 10, 2005. We intend to defend the foregoing lawsuit vigorously, but, because the lawsuit is still in the preliminary stages, we cannot predict the outcome and are not currently able to evaluate the likelihood of success or the range of potential loss, if any, that might be incurred in connection with the action. There is a risk that such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from its business, which could adversely effect our business. We carry insurance that provides an aggregate coverage of $20 million after a self-insured retention of $500 thousand for the period during which the claims were filed, but cannot evaluate at this time whether such coverage will be adequate to cover losses, if any, arising out of the lawsuit. If the Company were to lose on any issues connected with the lawsuit or if the lawsuit is not settled on favorable terms, the judgment or settlement may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 20 ITEM 