Risk Factors This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. We depend on one line of products for most of our revenues. Our current business is based almost in its entirety on our Multi Port Gigabit-Ethernet Server Adapter product line and the majority of our revenue is generated from such product line. We expect that in the foreseeable future we will continue to be dependent on this line of products for most of our revenue due the nature of our business. We also sell legacy products, however, the volume of sales of legacy products and the revenues generated from such sales is very low and is diminishing. Although we sold legacy products throughout 2005 and in the first months of 2006, we believe that the contribution of such products to our revenues in the foreseeable future will be negligible. We cannot assure you that revenue generated from our Mulit Port Gigabit-Ethernet Server Adapters will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. A decrease in the price of, or demand for, any of these products, or a significant increase in our costs of manufacturing them could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased demand for products with characteristics similar to our products may cause manufacturers to integrate such characteristics into server motherboards, eliminating the need for our add-on products. Our main products are add-on adapters that are added to existing Servers in order to improve their functionality. If demand for such improved functionality increases significantly, server manufacturers may begin incorporating such functionality as a part of the basic design of their servers, whereby eliminating the need to achieve such functionality through add-on adapters. In the past we suffered from a similar trend with respect to our legacy products. We cannot assure you that a similar trend will not occur in connection with our add-on adapters. Such trend would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 5 Our Multi Port Gigabit Ethernet Server Networking Adapters including our Bypass Adapters which are sold mainly to OEMs, are characterized by long sales cycles. We sell our Multi Port Gigabit Ethernet Server Networking Adapters (including our Bypass Adapters) mainly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. The decision making process of our OEM customers includes several time consuming processes, resulting from the critical importance of our products in their systems: They need to define the required configuration of their server system/appliance, derive the need and type of adapters, evaluate adapters, intensively test and qualify adapters and then (or in parallel) negotiate the terms for a purchase. It may therefore take 12 months or more from the time we first contact a prospective customer before such customer implements our cards in its system constituting what is known as a Design Win. Additionally, once a Design Win is secured, our sales of these products typically involve significant capital investment decisions by prospective end customers, as well as a significant amount of time to educate such end customers as to the benefits of systems and appliances that include our products. As a result, before purchasing systems and appliances which include our products (and consequently facilitating sales of our products), companies spend a substantial amount of time performing internal reviews and obtaining capital expenditure approvals, consequently lengthening the period of time required for a Design Win to mature into consistent sales. These long sales cycles make it difficult to predict when and to what extent discussions with potential customers will materialize into sales and could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate widely from period to period. In addition, our allocation of significant resources to potential sales opportunities that do not materialize into sales could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The short lead time of customer orders combined with the long lead time of our suppliers when ordering certain components for our products could result in either a surplus or lack of sufficient supplies, and impact negatively on our finances. While we are generally required to fill orders for our products within one or two weeks following the receipt of a firm purchase order, we must place orders of certain components for our products between sixteen and twenty weeks prior to delivery. As a result, we must have a significant amount of components in our inventory to be able to meet our best forecasts of projected purchase orders as opposed to on the basis of firm purchase orders. In the event that firm purchase orders are significantly lower than such forecasts, a significant part of our inventory will not be used and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls and in the event that firm purchase orders exceed such forecasts, we will not be able to fill such purchase orders which may lead to the loss of business from a customer. 6 Our visibility of future sales is severely limited due to the short lead time of customer orders. As a result of the short lead time for firm purchase orders, we are unable to accurately forecast future revenues from product sales. As a result, even dramatic fluctuation in revenue (whether increase or decrease) might not be detected until the very end of a financial quarter, which may not enable us to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for such fluctuation. The loss or ineffectiveness of our original equipment manufacturers or a reduction of purchase orders or sales efforts by such original equipment manufacturers may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our sales and marketing strategy is to develop and maintain strategic relationships with leading OEMs in the Servers industry and Server based systems industry, which integrate our products into their systems. These OEMs are not within our control, are not obligated to purchase our products, and may select other products that may compete with our lines of products. A reduction in their sales efforts or discontinuance of sales of our products by our OEMs could lead to reduced sales and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Use of OEMs also entails the risk that they will build up inventories in anticipation of a growth in sales. If such growth does not occur as anticipated, such OEMs may substantially decrease the amount of products ordered in subsequent quarters, discontinue product orders or even attempt to return unsold products (although our standard agreements do not allow return of products). The termination or loss of one of our key OEMs or several OEMs at approximately the same time, without being able to compensate this loss with sales to other new OEM customers might have a material adverse effect. The markets for our products change rapidly and demand for new products is difficult to predict. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. For example, The European Union’s directive regarding Restriction Of Hazardous Substances (ROHS) which requires products to be ROHS compliant and the migration from the PCI-X server bus to the PCI-Express (PCI-E) server bus, cause our OEMs to demand such new products and technologies. In the event that our OEMs decide to begin using such new technologies, we may not be able to develop products for the new technology in a timely manner. Our OEMs may also select competing products despite our ability to develop products incorporating new technologies. Consequently, we may suffer from reduced sales to such OEMs and accumulate unusable inventory which can be used only with older technologies. We intend to continue investing in product and technology development. Although we have recorded growing sales of our newest lines of products (to which the majority of our revenues are attributable), there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the marketing of our current products and in developing, manufacturing and marketing enhanced and new products in a timely manner. 7 We may experience difficulty in developing new, commercially successful products at acceptable release times. Since we commenced operations, we have conducted extensive research, development and engineering activities. Our efforts emphasize the development of new products, cost reduction of current products, and the enhancement of existing products, generally in response to rapidly changing customer preferences, technologies and industry standards. Although throughout 2004, 2005 and the first months of 2006 we recorded growing sales of our latest lines of products, Multi Port Gigabit-Ethernet Server Networking Adapters and Bypass Adapters, we cannot guarantee the continued success of these products, that they will be widely accepted by the marketplace or that any of our development efforts will result in commercially successful products, that such products will be released in a timely manner or that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. Loss of our sources for certain key components could harm our operations. Although we generally use standard parts and components for our products, certain key components used in our products are currently available from only one source, and others are available from a limited number of sources. We believe that we maintain a sufficient inventory of these components to protect against delays in deliveries. However, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience delays in the supply of critical components in the future or that we will have a sufficient inventory of critical components at such time to produce products at full capacity. In the event that we are not able to purchase key components of our products from our limited sources, we may need to redesign certain products. We cannot guarantee that we will have adequate resources for such a redesign or that such a redesign will be successful. Such inability to obtain alternative resources or to successfully redesign our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inability to receive information from our key component manufacturers could affect our ability to develop new products required by our OEMs and by the industry in which we operate. Our products are based on networking controllers which are manufactured by either Broadcom or Intel. In order to design our products we need to receive information that enables us to design products with the use of such controllers. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive all the information required for designing products with the use of new controllers continuously released by both Intel and Broadcom. Intel and Broadcom may also compete with our products. Such competition may also affect their decisions regarding the sharing of information with us. The inability to obtain such information may adversely affect our ability to design new products and may have an adverse effect. 8 The market for our products is highly competitive and some of our competitors may be better positioned than we are. The market for our products is highly competitive. We face competition from numerous companies, some of which are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have greater financial, production and marketing resources than we do. For example, in the server networking industry for which we have developed our multi-port Gigabit-Ethernet Server Networking cards, our main competitor is Intel. We cannot guarantee that our present or contemplated products will continue to be distinguishable from those of our competitors or that the marketplace will find our products preferable to those of our competitors. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that competitive pressures will not result in price reductions that could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and the results of our operations. We may not be able to prevent others from claiming that we have infringed their proprietary rights. We cannot guarantee that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. The cost of responding to claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Significant and protracted litigation may be necessary to determine the scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Although we believe that all our products use only our intellectual property, or intellectual property which is properly licensed to us, in the event that any infringement claim is brought against us and infringement is proven, we could be required to discontinue the use of the relevant technology, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, to incur significant litigation damages, costs and expenses, to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the alleged infringing technology and to pay royalties to use such licenses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to develop any such alternative technologies or obtain any such licenses on terms commercially acceptable to us. Although in the past we have resolved a claim of infringement through a license agreement, the terms of which did not have a material effect on our business, any infringement claim or other litigation against us could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. While there are no lawsuits or other claims currently pending against us regarding the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others, we have been a party to such claims in the past and may be party to such claims in the future. We are dependent on key personnel. Our success has been, and will be, dependent to a large degree on our ability to retain the services of key personnel and to attract additional qualified personnel in the future. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain key personnel in the future and our failure to do so would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Exchange rate fluctuations and international risks could increase the cost of our operations. Substantially all of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and may be subject to government controls and other risks, including, in some cases, export licenses, federal restrictions on export, currency fluctuations, political instability, trade restrictions, and changes in tariffs and freight rates. We believe that the rate of inflation in Israel and exchange rate fluctuations between the New Israeli Shekel (NIS) and the U.S. dollar have had a minor effect on our business to date. However, our dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar, if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel or if the dollar devaluates against the NIS. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Impact of Inflation and Devaluation on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets.” If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. We will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered to be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value and including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a U.S. Holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark to market” election, “excess distributions” to a U.S. Holder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. Holder on a disposition or our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends, to the extent that they constituted excess distributions, would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation, and certain “interest” charges may apply. In addition, gains on the sale of our shares would be treated in the same way as excess distributions. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. In light of the uncertainties described above, no assurance can be given that we will not be a PFIC in any year. If we determine that we have become a PFIC, we will then notify our U.S. Holders and provide them with the information necessary to comply with the QEF rules. A U.S. Holder who makes a QEF election is taxed currently on such holder’s proportionate share of our earnings. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a U.S. Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the U.S. Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. U.S. Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC, subject to exceptions for U.S. Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election, or certain other elections. 10 The trading volume of our shares has been low in the past and may be low in the future, resulting in lower than expected market prices for our shares. Our shares have been traded at low volumes in the past and may be traded at low volumes in the future for reasons related or unrelated to our performance. This low trading volume may result in lower than expected market prices for our ordinary shares and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares for more than they paid for them. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. All of our executive officers and all of our directors are non-residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any such persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce United States final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters obtained after due trial before a court of competent jurisdiction (according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel) which enforces similar Israeli judgments, provided that the requisite procedural and legal requirements are adhered to. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in New Israeli Shekels, which can then be converted into foreign currency at the rate of exchange of such foreign currency on the date of payment. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in New Israeli Shekels (without any linkage to a foreign currency) ordinarily will be linked to the Israeli consumer price index plus interest at the annual statutory rate prevailing at such time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 11 The political environment and hostilities in Israel could harm our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a state of hostility has existed between Israel and the Arab countries in the region. This state of hostility has varied in degree and intensity over time. A significant increase in violence began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2006 and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives ceased for some time. Beginning in late September 2000 and until the first months of 2005, there was a significant increase in hostilities and unrest between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and certain terrorist groups operating within the Palestinian Authority. During the first months of 2005, negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority were renewed and hostilities diminished to a certain extent, however, hostile acts resumed during the course of 2005. While previous hostilities did not have a material adverse impact on our business, we cannot guarantee that hostilities will not be renewed and have such an effect in the future. In addition, the election of representatives of the Hamas militant group in January 2006 to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council may create additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. The political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, many of our facilities are located in Israel. Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we could experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. Many of our employees in Israel are required to perform military reserve duty. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40 are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. In recent years, there have been significant call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. We are affected by volatility in the securities markets. The securities markets in general have experienced volatility which has particularly affected the securities of many high-technology companies and particularly those in the fields of communications, software and Internet, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies and may cause difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general may affect our financial results. 12 We are affected by worldwide downturns in industries based on technology. The volatility in the securities markets discussed above and its effect on high-technology companies may have a ripple effect on our performance. In the last downturn which the markets experienced beginning in 2001, technology companies dealing in communications and computers were severely affected and some were forced to cease operations. We felt the effects of this downturn in 2001 through 2003. We can give no assurance that our results will not be affected on a going forward basis by any future downturns. 