ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. We may not successfully integrate pending or future acquisitions into our operations or otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we continue to pursue a disciplined acquisition strategy. While we expect to identify cost savings and growth opportunities before we acquire companies or assets, we may not be able to achieve these anticipated benefits due to, among other things: · Delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; · Higher than expected costs or a need to allocate additional resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; · Parameters imposed or delays caused by regulatory agencies; · Reliance on inaccurate assumptions in evaluating the expected benefits of a given acquisition; · Inability to retain key employees or customers of acquired companies; and · Assumption of liabilities not identified in the due diligence process. These risks apply to our recently completed acquisition of Aquila's Michigan and Minnesota natural gas distribution operations as well as our merger with Peoples Energy which closed on February 21, 2007. Integrys Energy Group and Peoples Energy entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although we expect to achieve these anticipated benefits of the merger, achieving them is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: · the extent to which regulatory authorities will require the combined company to share a disproportionate amount of the expected or achieved synergies of the merger with customers, any of which may have an adverse effect on the combined company; · resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations (including the recovery of deferred costs) and other regulatory decisions impacting Integrys Energy Group’s regulated businesses, including the rate treatment of synergies and the cost to achieve those synergies; · the ability of the two companies to combine certain of their operations or take advantage of expected growth opportunities; · general market and economic conditions; · general competitive factors in the marketplace; and · higher than expected costs required to achieve the expected synergies. No assurance can be given that these benefits will be achieved or, if achieved, the timing of their achievement. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amount of expected revenues or net income of the combined company. The integration of Peoples Energy following the merger will present significant challenges that may result in a decline in the anticipated potential benefits of the merger. The merger involves the combination of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the companies' operations include, but are not limited to: · combining the best practices of two companies, including utility operations, non-regulated energy marketing operations and staff functions; · the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; · integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; -24- · reducing the costs associated with each company's operations; and · preserving important relationships of both companies and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. The process of combining operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the two companies' operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the now combined company. Integrys Energy Group expects the merger to generate potential pre-tax cost synergy savings of $94 million for the combined company on an annualized basis by the end of the fifth full year of operations following completion of the merger (excluding costs of integration). These savings may not be realized within the time periods contemplated, or at all. Integrys Energy Group will incur significant transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs in connection with the merger with Peoples Energy. Integrys Energy Group expects to incur costs associated with combining the operations of two companies, as well as transaction fees and other costs related to the merger. Integrys Energy Group will also incur restructuring and integration costs in connection with the merger. The estimated total cost of accomplishing the merger and achieving synergies and cost savings is approximately $186 million in transaction and integration costs (excluding internal labor costs), most of which will be incurred through 2010. The costs related to restructuring will be treated as a liability and will be included in the total purchase price or expensed as a cost of the ongoing results of operations, depending on the nature of the restructuring activity. Although Integrys Energy Group expects the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, to offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Integrys Energy Group has recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect the company's operating results. The merger with Peoples Energy and the acquisition of gas distribution assets from Aquila are accounted for as purchases by Integrys Energy Group in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities will be recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition and added to those of Integrys Energy Group. The reported financial condition and results of operations of Integrys Energy Group issued after completion of the merger will reflect Peoples Energy balances and results after completion of the merger, but will not be restated retroactively to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Peoples Energy for periods prior to the merger. Following completion of the merger, the earnings of the combined company will reflect purchase accounting adjustments. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price will be allocated to Peoples Energy's tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date the merger was completed. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. We expect that the merger will result in a significant amount of goodwill based upon the application of purchase accounting. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, Integrys Energy Group may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on the combined company's operating results. Integrys Energy Group’s oil and natural gas producing operations involve many risks associated with estimates and assumptions used in making capital expenditure decisions. In addition to the operational risks described above, the oil and natural gas drilling operations are also subject to the risk of not encountering commercially productive reservoirs and Integrys Energy Group may -25- not recover all or any portion of its investment in those wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only because of dry holes but also due to wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating, production taxes and other costs. In addition, estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process that involves significant interpretations of technical data and assumptions that result in reserve estimates being inherently imprecise. Integrys Energy Group utilizes a 10% discount factor when estimating the value of its reserves, as prescribed by the SEC, and this may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which the production business or the natural gas and oil industry, in general, are subject. Any significant variations from the interpretations or assumptions used in the estimates or changes of conditions could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of the Integrys Energy Group’s reserves to differ materially from amounts disclosed in this document. We are subject to changes in government regulation, which may have a negative impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the PSCW, MPSC, MPUC, FERC, SEC, EPA, Minnesota Office of Pipeline Safety and the WDNR regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities and the rates that we can charge customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies to operate our business. On February 21, 2007, the merger with Peoples Energy was closed. Peoples Energy's primary regulated natural gas distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the ICC. The rates our regulated utilities are allowed to charge for their retail and wholesale services are some of the most important items influencing our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional expenses or change business operations, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, federal regulatory reforms may produce unexpected changes and costs in the public utility industry. We may not complete construction projects within estimated project costs. WPSC is currently in the process of constructing the 500-megawatt Weston 4 base-load generation facility at an estimated cost of $779 million (including the coal trains). WPSC is responsible for 70% of these costs. This and other projects also may be subject to joint ownership or operation agreements, completion of which will impact estimated project costs. This a very large and complex construction project, subject to numerous unpredictable events that could affect our ability to timely complete construction within estimated costs. We may not be able to meet these construction estimates due to, among other things: · Fluctuating or unanticipated construction costs; · Supply delays; · Legal claims; and · Environmental regulation. We may not utilize Section 29/45K synthetic fuel production tax credits. We have significantly reduced our consolidated federal income tax liability for the past several years through tax credits available to us under Section 29/45K of the Internal Revenue Code for the production and sale of solid synthetic fuel from coal. We have not fully utilized Section 29/45K tax credits previously -26- available to us. Our ability to fully utilize the Section 29/45K tax credits available to us in connection with our interest in the production facility will depend on whether the amount of our federal taxable income and related income tax liability is sufficient to permit the use of such credits. The Internal Revenue Service strictly enforces compliance with all of the technical requirements of Section 29/45K. Section 29/45K tax credits are currently scheduled to expire at the end of 2007. Any disallowance of some or all of those tax credits could materially affect our tax obligations and may also result in a reduction of the level of synthetic fuel production at the facility, thus reducing the likelihood and amount of future payments from other participants in the project. Future tax legislation and Internal Revenue Service review may also affect the value of the credits and of our share of the facility. At this time, we cannot predict the potential for or the outcome of any Internal Revenue Service review. Our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to weather, terrorist attacks or related acts of war. Our revenues are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas. That demand can vary greatly based upon: · Weather conditions, seasonality and temperature extremes; · Fluctuations in economic activity and growth in our regulated service areas, as well as areas in which our nonregulated subsidiaries operate; and · The amount of additional energy available from current or new competitors. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events, in excess of reserves established for such repairs, may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The occurrence or risk of occurrence of future terrorist activity and the high cost or potential unavailability of insurance to cover such terrorist activity may impact our results of operations and financial condition in unpredictable ways. These actions could also result in disruptions of power and fuel markets. In addition, our natural gas distribution system and pipelines could be directly or indirectly harmed by future terrorist activity. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities, fines, penalties and litigation could exceed our estimates. Compliance with current and future federal and state environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. Integrys Energy Group cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. Any future changes in the interpretation of the Clean Air Act's New Source Review provisions could potentially increase operating and maintenance costs substantially. On March 15, 2005, the EPA, adopted the Clean Air Mercury Rule, which is intended to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired generation plants. The EPA has also issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule requiring reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions. In addition, the possibility exists of future regulation of greenhouse gases emitted from generation facilities. Integrys Energy Group cannot be certain how these rules will affect it. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. Citizen groups that feel there are compliance issues not sufficiently enforced by environmental regulatory agencies may bring citizen enforcement actions against us. Such actions could seek penalties, injunctive relief and costs of litigation. -27- Any change in our ability to sell electricity generated from our nonregulated facilities at market-based rates may impact earnings. The FERC has authorized us to sell generation from our nonregulated facilities at market prices. The FERC retains the authority to modify or withdraw our market based rate authority. If the FERC determines that the market is not workably competitive, that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and reasonable rates, it may require our nonregulated subsidiaries to sell power at a price based upon the costs incurred in producing the power. Our revenues and profit margins may be negatively affected by any reduction by the FERC of the rates we may receive. Fluctuating commodity prices may reduce regulated and nonregulated energy margins. Our regulated energy margins are directly affected by commodity costs related to coal, natural gas and other fuels used in the electric generation process. The commodity price of market purchases of electricity also directly affects our regulated energy margins. Higher commodity prices increase energy prices and may impact customer demand for energy in the nonregulated market and increase counterparty risk. This may stress margins at our nonregulated subsidiaries. Integrys Energy Services may experience increased expenses, including interest costs and uncollectibles, higher working capital requirements and possibly some reduction in volumes sold as a result of any increase in the cost of fuel or purchased power. If market prices for electric energy decline below the cost of production at our nonregulated facilities, these units may be temporarily shut down and alternative sources of energy would need to be found to meet energy commitments economically. A reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot be sure that any of our credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a credit rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade could: · Increase our borrowing costs; · Require us to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and possibly reduce the potential pool of creditors; · Increase our borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities; · Limit our access to the commercial paper market; and · Limit the availability of adequate credit support for Integrys Energy Services' operations. Actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex and actual results could differ from those estimates. For more information about these estimates and assumptions, see ''Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies'' in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. -28- The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. We use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In addition, we purchase and sell commodity-based contracts in the natural gas and electric energy markets for trading purposes. In the future, we could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Additionally, realized values could differ from values determined by management. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity-based trading contracts, see Note 3 - Risk Management Activities in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to provisions that can limit merger and acquisition opportunities for our shareholders. The Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility consumers, investors and the public. Those interests may, to some extent, be mutually exclusive. This provision and other requirements of the Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law may delay, or reduce the likelihood of, a sale or change of control thus reducing the likelihood that shareholders will receive a takeover premium for their shares. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and may prevent or delay a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company that is not approved by our board of directors, even if the shareholders believe that such events may be beneficial to their interests. In addition, the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law contains provisions that may have the effect of delaying or making more difficult attempts by others to obtain control of our company without the approval of our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. -29- ITEM 