ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when making an investment decision. We are subject to government regulation, which may have a negative impact on our businesses, financial position, and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state regulatory agencies and local governmental bodies. This regulation significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from customers of our regulated operations. Many aspects of our operations are regulated, including, but not limited to, construction and operation of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that we can charge customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from these agencies to operate our business. Failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to penalties or customer refunds, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal and state regulatory agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. However, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional expenses or change business operations, which may have an adverse impact on results of operations.The rates, including adjustments determined under riders, that our regulated utilities are allowed to charge for retail and wholesale services are the most important factors influencing our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. However, there is no assurance that regulatory commissions will consider all the costs of our regulated utilities to have been prudently incurred. In addition, the regulatory process will not always result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or provide for a reasonable return on equity. Certain expense and revenue items are deferred as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by regulators. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, and is generally subject to review by regulators in rate proceedings for prudence and reasonableness. If recovery of costs is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, regulatory assets would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which could be difficult and costly. We are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations that affect many aspects of our operations, including future operations. These laws and regulations relate to air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, and the generation, transport, and disposal of solid wastes and hazardous substances. These laws and regulations require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections, and other approvals. Environmental laws and regulations can also require us to restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels, install pollution control equipment or environmental monitoring equipment at our facilities, incur fees for emissions and permits, and incur expenditures for cleanup costs, damages arising from contaminated properties, and monitoring obligations. In addition, there is uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating, and other costs. Noncompliance could result in fines, penalties, and injunctive measures affecting our facilities. Existing environmental laws or regulations may also be revised and/or new laws or regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, regulation regarding mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxide emissions, and the management of coal combustion byproducts, including fly ash. The steps we could be required to take to ensure that our facilities are in compliance with any such laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, certain coal-fired electric generating facilities may become uneconomical to run and could result in early retirement of some of our units or may force us to convert the units to an alternative type of fuel. Costs associated with these potential actions could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our natural gas utility subsidiaries are accruing liabilities and deferring costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with their former manufactured gas plant sites. These costs include all recoverable costs incurred to date, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation, and legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered by or that may be recovered from insurance or other entities. The ultimate costs to remediate these sites could also vary from the amounts currently accrued.Citizen groups that feel environmental regulations are not being sufficiently enforced by environmental regulatory agencies may also bring citizen enforcement actions against us. Such actions could seek penalties, injunctive relief, and costs of litigation. There is also a risk that private citizens may bring lawsuits to recover environmental damages they believe they have incurred.11We may incur significant costs if laws or regulations are adopted to address climate change.Political interest in climate change and the effects of greenhouse gas emissions, most notably carbon dioxide, are a concern for the energy industry. Although no legislation is currently pending that would affect us, state or federal legislation could be passed in the future to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the EPA began regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act (CAA) by applying the Best Available Control Technology (BACT) requirements, which are associated with the New Source Review Program. These requirements apply to new and modified larger greenhouse gas emitters. The EPA has issued a proposed rule that would impose a carbon dioxide emission rate limit on new electric generating units, but the EPA has delayed proposing performance standards for existing units. Until legislation is passed at the federal or state level or the EPA adopts final rules for electric utility steam generating units, it remains unclear as to (1) which industry sectors will be impacted, (2) when compliance will be required, (3) the magnitude of the greenhouse gas emissions reductions that will be required, and (4) the costs and opportunities associated with compliance. It is possible that future carbon regulation will increase the cost of electricity produced at fossil fuel-fired generation units. Future regulation may also affect the capital expenditures we would make at our generation units, including costs to further limit the greenhouse gas emissions from our operations through carbon capture and storage technology. Any such regulation may also create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could also affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. Future legislation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate and could impact future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recoverable through regulated rates. Our natural gas delivery systems may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair of natural gas delivery systems. Fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane, a greenhouse gas. Carbon dioxide is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. As a result, future legislation to regulate greenhouse gas emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities, and/or reduce natural gas demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Our operations are subject to various conditions which can result in fluctuations in the number of customers and their usage. Our operations are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon: •Fluctuations in general economic conditions and growth in the service areas in which we operate;•Weather conditions;•The amount of energy available from current or new competitors; and•Our customers' continued focus on energy efficiency.Our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers.The operation of electric generation and natural gas and electric distribution facilities involves many risks, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, which may occur due to storms, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Other risks include aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, employee labor disputes, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, and performance below expected levels. Because our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of these third parties. Operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operating and maintenance costs, purchased power costs, and capital requirements. Unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems may occur and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages may reduce our revenues or may require us to incur significant costs by forcing us to operate our higher cost electric generators or obtain replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our power sales obligations. Insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses. New and pending environmental regulations may force many generation facility owners in the Midwest, including our electric utilities, to retire a significant number of older coal-fired generation facilities, resulting in a potential reduction in the region's capacity reserve margin to below acceptable risk levels. This could also impair the reliability of the Midwest portion of the grid, especially during peak demand periods. A reduction in available future capacity could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers' needs. We are obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our service territories. Meeting this commitment requires significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards could adversely affect our operating results through the imposition of penalties and fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. 12Our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security attacks, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information. Any future terrorist attack, cyber security attack, and/or act of war affecting our facilities and operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The energy industry uses sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems with other third parties. A cyber security attack may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, including compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. Cyber security attacks, including those targeting information systems and electronic control systems used at generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could severely disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. The risk of such attacks may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure. Our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may cause our business reputation to be adversely impacted, may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or may cause us to become subject to legal claims, fines, or penalties, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations. The costs of repairing damage to our facilities, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance.Counterparties and customers may not meet their obligations. We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, coal, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at then-current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' natural gas and electric requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. In such event, we may incur losses, or our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected. Some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience, financial problems that could have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. We cannot provide assurance that financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us and that such defaults will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, could adversely impact our receivable collections or increase our bad debt allowances for these customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, such events might force customers to reduce their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Any change in our ability to sell electricity generated from our facilities at market-based rates may impact earnings. The FERC has authorized certain of our subsidiaries to sell generation from their facilities at market prices. The FERC retains the authority to modify or withdraw this market-based rate authority. If the FERC determines that the market is not workably competitive, that we or our subsidiaries possess market power, that we are not charging just and reasonable rates, or that we have not complied with the rules required in order to maintain market-based rates, the FERC may require our subsidiaries to sell power at a price based upon the costs incurred in producing the power. Our revenues and profit margins may be negatively affected by any reduction by the FERC of the rates we may receive. Poor investment performance of retirement plan investments and other factors impacting retirement plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations.We have employee benefit plans that cover substantially all of our employees and retirees. Our cost of providing these benefit plans varies depending upon actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future. These assumptions include earnings on and/or valuations of plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and required or voluntary contributions to the plans. Depending on the investment performance over time and other factors impacting our costs, we could be required to make larger contributions in the future to fund these plans. These additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension and other postretirement benefit costs.As a holding company, we rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations.We are a holding company, and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us, whether through dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, general financial condition, and 13regulatory limitations. In addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to us depends on any statutory and/or contractual restrictions, which may include requirements to maintain levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. We may not be able to use tax credit and/or net operating loss carryforwards. We have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits and net operating loss carryforwards available under the applicable tax codes. We have not fully used these tax credits and net operating loss carryforwards in our previous tax filings, and we may not be able to fully use the tax credits and net operating losses available as carryforwards if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit the use of such credits and losses. In addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits or net operating loss carryforwards as a result of legislative change or adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect our tax obligations and financial results. Adverse capital and credit market conditions could negatively affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital, and/or grow or sustain our current business. Cost of capital and disruptions, uncertainty, and/or volatility in the financial markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, as well as exert downward pressure on our stock price.Having access to the credit and capital markets, at a reasonable cost, is necessary for us to fund our operations and capital requirements. The capital and credit markets provide us with liquidity to operate and grow our businesses that is not otherwise provided from operating cash flows and also supports our ability to provide credit support for our subsidiaries. Disruptions, uncertainty, and/or volatility in those markets could increase our cost of capital or limit the availability of capital. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to access the credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, we may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities, and/or bear an increased cost of capital. This, in turn, could impact our ability to grow or sustain our current businesses, cause a reduction in earnings, result in a credit rating downgrade, and/or limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. A reduction in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We cannot be sure that any of our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade could: •Require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the potential pool of creditors;•Increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities;•Limit access to the commercial paper market;•Limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries’ operations; and•Require provision of additional credit assurance, including cash margin calls, to contract counterparties.Fluctuating commodity prices may impact energy margins and result in changes to liquidity requirements. The margins and liquidity requirements of our businesses are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services. Changes in price could result in:•Higher working capital costs, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings;•Increased liquidity requirements due to potential counterparty margin calls related to the use of derivative instruments to manage commodity price and volume exposure;•Reduced profitability to the extent that reduced margins, increased bad debt, and interest expenses are not recovered through rates;•Higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact the company’s competitive position;•Reduced demand for energy, which could impact margins and operating expenses; and•Shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity.We have recorded goodwill and other intangibles that could become impaired.To the extent the value of goodwill or other intangibles becomes impaired, we have had to, and in the future, may also be required to, incur material noncash charges relating to such impairments. These impairment charges could have a material impact on our financial results. We are subject to the Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Act, which may limit merger and acquisition opportunities that could benefit our shareholders. The Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law limits our ability to invest in nonutility related businesses and may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. This law mandates that the PSCW must first determine that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. Those interests may, to some extent, be mutually exclusive. This provision and other requirements of the Wisconsin Public 14Utility Holding Company Act may delay, or reduce the likelihood of, a sale or change of control thus reducing the likelihood that shareholders will receive a takeover premium for their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 