ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones Integrys Energy Group faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that Integrys Energy Group currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect Integrys Energy Group. Adverse capital and credit market conditions could negatively affect Integrys Energy Group's ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital, and/or grow or sustain its current businesses. Cost of capital and disruptions, uncertainty, and/or volatility in the financial markets could also adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of Integrys Energy Group, as well as exert downward pressure on its stock price. The capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility, uncertainty, and disruption in 2008, which has continued into 2009. Having access to the credit and capital markets, at a reasonable cost, is necessary for Integrys Energy Group to fund its operations, including capital requirements. The capital and credit markets provide Integrys Energy Group with liquidity to operate and grow its businesses that is not otherwise provided from operating cash flows. The credit and capital markets also support the ability of Integrys Energy Group to provide credit support for the nonregulated operations of Integrys Energy Services. Disruptions, uncertainty, and/or volatility in those markets could increase Integrys Energy Group's cost of capital. If Integrys Energy Group or its subsidiaries are unable to access the credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities, and/or bear an increased cost of capital. This, in turn, could impact Integrys Energy Group's ability to grow or sustain its current businesses including its ability to provide adequate credit support for Integrys Energy Services, cause a reduction in earnings, and/or limit Integrys Energy Group's ability to sustain its current common stock dividend level. The strength and depth of competition in the nonregulated energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which was adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets in 2008 and could continue to be affected in 2009. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the nonregulated energy markets have diminished the liquidity and competitiveness of those markets and could continue to do so into 2009, which could negatively impact the business of Integrys Energy Services. These diminished markets have also increased counterparty credit risk. A reduction in Integrys Energy Group's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could materially and adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Integrys Energy Group cannot be sure that any of Integrys Energy Group's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a credit rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade could: · Require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the potential pool of creditors; · Increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities; · Limit access to the commercial paper market; · Limit the availability of adequate credit support for Integrys Energy Services' operations; and · Require provision of additional credit assurance, including cash margin calls, to contract counterparties. -20- The failure to effectively execute Integrys Energy Group’s plan to significantly reduce the scope and scale, partially divest of, or fully divest of the nonregulated energy services business segment, Integrys Energy Services, could negatively impact the future results of operations and financial condition of Integrys Energy Group. We cannot be certain that we will be able to execute our strategic decision for our nonregulated business segment in a timely manner. The process of selling assets or the full business segment, exiting markets, reducing operating costs, and managing exposures can result in increased risks, including but not limited to: · A reduction in operating efficiencies, as operating margins may decline at a faster rate than the associated operating expenses; · Potential loss of key employees during periods of increased employment uncertainty; · A reduction in the value of the nonregulated business segment, including a potential corresponding negative impact on Integrys Energy Group; · Lower customer retention rates at Integrys Energy Services due to short-term uncertainty about the ultimate outcome of the strategic decision; · Losses on the disposition of specific assets, components of the business segment, or the entire business segment during this period of economic turmoil; · Lower earnings capacity from this business segment going forward, which Integrys Energy Group may not be able to replace. Refer to Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Introduction,” for a further discussion of the revised strategy for Integrys Energy Services. Counterparties and customers may not meet their obligations. Integrys Energy Group is exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe Integrys Energy Group money, energy, natural gas, coal or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Integrys Energy Group might be forced to replace or to sell the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such event, Integrys Energy Group might incur losses, or its results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected. Some of Integrys Energy Group's customers are experiencing, or may experience, financial problems that could have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. Integrys Energy Group cannot provide assurance that its financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to Integrys Energy Group and that such a default will not have a material adverse effect on Integrys Energy Group's business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of its customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that Integrys Energy Group would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by distressed entities or residential customers. Such events could adversely impact Integrys Energy Group's receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect its operating results. In addition, such events might force customers to reduce or curtail their future use of Integrys Energy Group's products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on Integrys Energy Group’s results of operations and financial condition. -21- The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. Integrys Energy Group uses derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage its commodity and financial market risks. Integrys Energy Group also purchases and sells commodity-based contracts in the natural gas and electric energy markets for trading purposes. Integrys Energy Group has in the past, and could in the future, recognize financial losses (on both an economic and GAAP basis) on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Additionally, significant volatility in energy prices could adversely impact Integrys Energy Group's cash collateral requirements due to counterparty margin calls. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative contracts involves management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Furthermore, realized values could differ from values determined by management. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity-based trading contracts, see Note 2, "Risk Management Activities." Integrys Energy Group has recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect financial results. The merger with PEC and the acquisition of natural gas distribution operations in Minnesota and Michigan are accounted for as purchases by Integrys Energy Group in accordance with GAAP. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities acquired were recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition and added to those of Integrys Energy Group. As a result of the application of purchase accounting, these transactions resulted in a significant amount of goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, Integrys Energy Group may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such an impairment charge could have a material impact on the financial results of Integrys Energy Group. Integrys Energy Group is subject to changes in government regulation, which may have a negative impact on its businesses, financial position, and results of operations. The rates that Integrys Energy Group's regulated utilities are allowed to charge for their retail and wholesale services are some of the most important items influencing its business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Integrys Energy Group is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state regulatory agencies, which significantly influences its operating environment and may affect Integrys Energy Group's ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the PSCW, ICC, MPSC, MPUC, FERC, SEC, EPA, Minnesota Office of Pipeline Safety, United States Department of Transportation, WDNR, and Illinois Environmental Protection Agency regulate many aspects of Integrys Energy Group's utility operations, including, but not limited to, construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that it can charge customers. Integrys Energy Group is required to have numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from these agencies to operate its business. Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by these agencies or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to Integrys Energy Group. Integrys Energy Group is unable to predict the impact on its businesses and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. However, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require Integrys Energy Group to incur additional expenses or change business operations, which may have an adverse impact on results of operations. In addition, federal regulatory reforms may produce unexpected changes and costs in the public utility industry. -22- Any change in Integrys Energy Group's ability to sell electricity generated from its facilities at market based rates may impact earnings. The FERC has authorized Integrys Energy Group to sell generation from certain of its facilities at market prices. The FERC retains the authority to modify or withdraw Integrys Energy Group's market based rate authority. If the FERC determines that the market is not workably competitive, that Integrys Energy Group possesses market power, or that it is not charging just and reasonable rates, it may require its subsidiaries to sell power at a price based upon the costs incurred in producing the power. Integrys Energy Group's revenues and profit margins may be negatively affected by any reduction by the FERC of the rates it may receive. Integrys Energy Group may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, most notably carbon dioxide, are increasingly becoming a concern for the energy industry. While there is currently no federal regulation in the United States that mandates the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, it is possible that such legislation may be enacted in the future. To that end, federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases. Until legislation is passed at the federal or state level, it remains unclear as to (1) which industry sectors will be impacted, (2) when compliance will be required, (3) the magnitude of the greenhouse gas emissions reductions that will be required, and (4) the costs and opportunities associated with compliance. Integrys Energy Group is evaluating both the technical and cost implications which may result from future state, regional, or federal greenhouse gas regulatory programs, but at this time, it is uncertain as to the effect climate change regulation may have on Integrys Energy Group's future operations, capital expenditures, and financial results. Based on the complexity and uncertainty of these issues, it is possible that future carbon regulation will increase the cost of electricity produced at coal-fired generation units and may affect the capital expenditures Integrys Energy Group would make at its generation units. At this time, there is no commercially available technology for removing carbon dioxide from a pulverized coal-fired plant. In addition, future legislation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of the generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate and could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recoverable through regulated rates. Integrys Energy Group's natural gas delivery systems may also generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair of natural gas delivery systems. Fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane, a greenhouse gas. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities, fines, penalties, and litigation could exceed Integrys Energy Group's estimates. Compliance with current and future federal and state environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. Integrys Energy Group cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. Integrys Energy Group's natural gas utility subsidiaries are accruing liabilities and deferring costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with their former manufactured gas plant sites, including related legal expenses, pending recovery through rates or from other entities. Regulatory assets reflect the net amount of (1) costs incurred to date, (2) carrying costs (excluding those for WPS), (3) amounts recovered from insurance companies, other entities and customers, and (4) management's best estimates of the costs Integrys Energy Group will spend in the future for investigating and remediating the manufactured gas plant sites. Integrys Energy Group believes that any of these costs that are not recoverable from other entities or from insurance carriers are recoverable through rates for utility services under approved mechanisms for the recovery of prudently incurred costs. A change in these rate -23- recovery mechanisms, however, or a decision by the applicable state commission that some or all of these costs were not prudently incurred, could result in the present recognition as expense of some or all of these costs. For more information, see Note 15, "Commitments and Contingencies." In addition, impacts resulting from future federal or state regulation regarding mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxide emissions are uncertain. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Citizen groups that feel there are compliance issues not sufficiently enforced by environmental regulatory agencies may also bring citizen enforcement actions against Integrys Energy Group. Such actions could seek penalties, injunctive relief, and costs of litigation. Poor investment performance of retirement plan investments and other factors impacting retirement plan costs could unfavorably impact Integrys Energy Group’s liquidity and results of operations. Integrys Energy Group has employee benefit plans that cover substantially all of its employees and retirees. Integrys Energy Group's cost of providing these benefit plans is dependent upon actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on and/or valuations of plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and required or voluntary contributions to the plans. Depending upon the investment performance over time and other factors impacting its costs (as listed above), Integrys Energy Group could be required to make larger contributions in the future to fund these plans. These additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on Integrys Energy Group's cash flows, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Fluctuating commodity prices may reduce energy margins. Integrys Energy Group’s regulated natural gas margins are sensitive to changes in natural gas commodity prices. Any changes could affect the prices the regulated natural gas utilities charge, their operating costs, and the competitive position of their products and services. Prudently incurred costs for purchased natural gas and pipeline transportation and storage services are fully recoverable through the annual reconciliation of revenues from the natural gas charge. However, increases in natural gas costs affect total retail prices and, therefore, the competitive position of Integrys Energy Group's natural gas business relative to other forms of energy. In addition, the timing and extent of high natural gas prices can adversely affect accounts receivable, bad debts, fuel cost, and interest expense. Integrys Energy Group is also subject to margin requirements in connection with its use of forward contracts and these requirements could escalate if prices move adversely relative to these positions. Integrys Energy Group's regulated electric utility margins are directly affected by commodity costs related to coal, natural gas, and other fuels used in the electric generation process. Integrys Energy Group may experience increased expenses, including interest costs and bad debts, higher working capital requirements, and possibly reduction in demand as a result of any increase in the cost of fuel or purchased power. Higher commodity prices result in increased energy prices that may impact customer demand for energy in the nonregulated market and increase counterparty and bad debt risk. This may stress margins at Integrys Energy Group's nonregulated subsidiaries. If market prices for electric energy decline below the cost of production at Integrys Energy Group's nonregulated facilities, these units may be temporarily shut down. -24- Integrys Energy Group's operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to weather, terrorist attacks, or acts of war. Integrys Energy Group's revenues are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas. That demand can vary greatly based upon: · Weather conditions, seasonality, and temperature extremes; · Fluctuations in economic activity and growth in Integrys Energy Group's regulated service areas, as well as areas in which its nonregulated subsidiaries operate; and · The amount of additional energy available from current or new competitors. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to Integrys Energy Group's facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events, that is in excess of insurance limits established for such repairs or excluded by insurance policies, may adversely impact Integrys Energy Group's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The occurrence or risk of occurrence of future terrorist activity and the high cost or potential unavailability of insurance to cover such terrorist activity may impact Integrys Energy Group's results of operations and financial condition in unpredictable ways. These actions could also result in disruptions of power and fuel markets. In addition, Integrys Energy Group's natural gas distribution system and pipelines could be directly or indirectly harmed by future terrorist activity. Actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare Integrys Energy Group's financial statements. In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex and actual results could differ from those estimates. For more information about significant estimates and assumptions, see Item 7, ''Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies.'' Integrys Energy Group may not be able to utilize tax credit carryforwards. Integrys Energy Group has significantly reduced its consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits and tax losses available under the applicable tax codes. Integrys Energy Group has not fully utilized these tax credits and tax losses in its previous tax filings, but expects to prior to their expiration in future filings. However, Integrys Energy Group may not be able to fully utilize the tax credits and tax losses available as carryforwards if its future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit the use of such credits and losses. In addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits or tax losses as a result of legislative change or adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect Integrys Energy Group's tax obligations. -25- Integrys Energy Group is subject to provisions that can limit merger and acquisition opportunities for its shareholders. The Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility consumers, investors and the public. Those interests may, to some extent, be mutually exclusive. This provision and other requirements of the Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law may delay, or reduce the likelihood of, a sale or change of control thus reducing the likelihood that shareholders will receive a takeover premium for their shares. Provisions of Integrys Energy Group's articles of incorporation and by-laws may delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and may prevent or delay a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving Integrys Energy Group that is not approved by its board of directors, even if the shareholders believe that such events may be beneficial to Integrys Energy Group's interests. In addition, the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law contains provisions that may have the effect of delaying or making more difficult attempts by others to obtain control of Integrys Energy Group without the approval of its board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. -26- ITEM 