Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; · evaluation of non-performing loans; · historical default and loss experience; · historical recovery experience; · existing economic conditions; · risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and · the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a significant economic slowdown in Southeast Missouri, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2008, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2009. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market area in Southeast Missouri real estate markets, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. 37 Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in Southeast Missouri. While we did not and do not have a sub-prime lending program, our residential real estate, construction and land loan portfolios, our commercial and multifamily loan portfolios and certain of our other loans could be affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that significant declines in the real estate markets in our primary market area would hurt our business and would mean that collateral for our loans would hold less value. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. If interest rates continue to rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. At June 30, 2009, $98.6 million, or 28.0%, of our loan portfolio consisted of fixed rate one- to four-family residential real estate loans. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. A flat yield curve may also hurt our income, because it would reduce our ability to reinvest proceeds from loan and investment repayments at higher rates. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Annual Report as Exhibit 13. Non-compliance with USA Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company's shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading "Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation." These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions 38 conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant legal actions could subject the Company to substantial liabilities. The Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Company's regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, the Company may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our business lines in geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are in order to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 5, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $478,000 annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $860,000 annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our earnings. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our 39 dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Southern Missouri Bancorp, Inc. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 5.2% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 