Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Operating Environment An investment in our securities is subject to inherent risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; · evaluation of non-performing loans; · historical default and loss experience; · historical recovery experience; · existing economic conditions; · risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and · the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected. At June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, our nonperforming assets were $4.0 million and $2.4 million, respectively, or 0.54% and 0.35% of total assets, respectively. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways: · We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, nonperforming investment securities, or other real estate owned. 40 · We must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses. · Non-interest expense increases when we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment on nonperforming investment securities. · There are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our other real estate owned. · The resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in southeast or southwest Missouri or northeast or north central Arkansas, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2008, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within our primary market area in southeast and southwest Missouri and northeast and north central Arkansas, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing our loans; and · the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us. Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in southeast and southwest Missouri and northeast and north central Arkansas. While we did not and do not have a sub-prime lending program, our residential real estate, construction and land loan portfolios, our commercial and multifamily loan portfolios and certain of our other loans could be affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that significant declines in the real estate markets in our primary market area would hurt our business and would mean that collateral for our loans would hold less value. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our construction lending exposes us to significant risk. Our construction loan portfolio, which totaled $40.2 million, or 6.87% of loans, net, at June 30, 2012, includes residential and non-residential construction and development loans. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and sale of the related real estate project. Consequently, these loans are often more sensitive to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy than other real estate loans. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Additionally, we 41 may experience significant construction loan losses because independent appraisers or project engineers inaccurately estimate the cost and value of construction loan projects. Deterioration in our construction portfolio could result in increases in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our percentage of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. At June 30, 2012, 57.92% of our loans, net, consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans to small and mid-sized businesses, generally located in our primary market area, which are the types of businesses that have a heightened vulnerability to local economic conditions. Over the last several years, we have increased this type of lending from 45.2% of our portfolio at June 30, 2006, in order to improve the yield on our assets. At June 30, 2012, our loan portfolio included $201.0 million of commercial real estate loans and $137.0 million of commercial business loans compared to $65.4 million and $65.1 million, respectively, at June 30, 2006. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Commercial loans not collateralized by real estate are often secured by collateral that may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value (such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment). If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Several of our commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to any one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. Included in the commercial real estate loans described above are agricultural real estate loans totaling $48.6 million, or 8.33% of our loan portfolio, net, at June 30, 2012. Agricultural real estate lending involves a greater degree of risk and typically involves larger loans to single borrowers than lending on single-family residences. Payments on agricultural real estate loans are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the farm property securing the loan. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the farm borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The primary crops in our market areas are cotton, rice, corn and soybean. Accordingly, adverse circumstances affecting these crops could have an adverse effect on our agricultural real estate loan portfolio. Our agricultural real estate lending has grown significantly since June 30, 2006, when these loans totaled $5.6 million, or 2.0% of our loan portfolio. Included in the commercial business loans described above are agricultural production and equipment loans. At June 30, 2012, these loans totaled $50.8 million, or 8.71%, of our loan portfolio, net. As with agricultural real estate loans, the repayment of operating loans is dependent on the successful operation or management of the farm property. Likewise, agricultural operating loans which are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as 42 farm equipment or assets such as livestock or crops. Any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation to the collateral. Our agricultural operating loans have also grown significantly since June 30, 2006, when such loans totaled $11.1 million, or 4.0% of our loan portfolio. Lack of seasoning of our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to our increasing emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial business lending, a substantial amount of the loans in our commercial real estate and commercial business portfolios and our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as “seasoning.” A portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. As a result, because a large portion of our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows depend substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest they pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect: (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including our securities portfolio; and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or an adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry generally. We have pursued a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial companies or their assets and liabilities that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, including the following: · We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected; 43 · Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future; · The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. · To the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill. We are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; · To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders; and · We have completed two acquisitions within the past three years and opened additional banking offices in the past few years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations or continued growth, both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock, or otherwise adversely affect your investment. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. Impairment of investment securities, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. 44 In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the debt security or will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. In fiscal 2009, we incurred charges to recognize the other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) of available-for-sale investments related to investments in Freddie Mac preferred stock ($304,000 impairment realized in the first quarter of fiscal 2009) and a pooled trust preferred collateralized debt obligation, Trapeza CDO IV, Ltd., class C2 ($375,000 impairment realized in the second quarter of fiscal 2009). The Company currently holds three additional collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) which have not been deemed other-than-temporarily impaired, based on the Company’s best judgment using information currently available. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. As of June 30, 2012, the Company determined that none of its goodwill or other intangible assets were impaired. Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent it is more likely than not they will be realized. Should our management determine it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, a valuation allowance with a charge to earnings would be reflected in the period. At June 30, 2012, the Company’s net deferred tax asset was $1.7 million, none of which was disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. Based on the levels of taxable income in prior years and the Company’s expectation of profitability in the current year and future years, management has determined that no valuation allowance was required at June 30, 2012. If the Company is required in the future to take a valuation allowance with respect to its deferred tax asset, its financial condition, results of operations and regulatory capital levels would be negatively affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral that we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan. We cannot assure you that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Non-compliance with USA Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including new financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress that is expected to increase our costs of operations. We are currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI and by the Federal Reserve. The FDIC, DFI and the Federal Reserve govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution’s 45 allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or growth prospects. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could make compliance more difficult or expensive or other wise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Significant legal actions could subject the Company to substantial liabilities. The Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Company's regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, the Company may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our business lines in geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market 46 presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are in order to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; · dispositions, acquisitions and financings; · actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · regulatory developments; and · developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. 47 There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our stockholders’ equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. The Company may issue debt and equity securities that are senior to Company common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of Company common stock. In the future, the Company may increase its capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. In the event of the Company’s liquidation, its lenders and holders of its debt or preferred securities would receive a distribution of the Company’s available assets before distributions to the holders of Company common stock. The Company’s decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond its control. The Company cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings and debt financings. Future offerings could reduce the value of shares of Company common stock and dilute a shareholder’s interest in the Company. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on and repurchasing our common stock. Southern Missouri Bancorp, Inc. is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Southern Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, the Company is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common or preferred stock. Also, the Company's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Under the terms of the SBLF Preferred Stock and the securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury in connection with the SBLF transaction our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock is subject to a limit requiring us generally not to reduce out Tier 1 capital from the level on the SBLF closing date by more than 10%. In addition, if we fail to pay an SBLF dividend, there are further restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from paying dividends on or repurchasing our common stock at any time when we have elected to defer the payment of interest on such debt securities or certain events of default under the terms of those debt securities have occurred and are continuing. These restrictions could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce, suspend or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future. The Company’s participation in the SBLF program restricts the Company’s ability to pay dividends to common shareholders, restricts the Company’s ability to repurchase shares of common stock, and could have other negative effects. In July 2011, we sold to the U.S. Treasury $20.0 million of the SBLF preferred stock. We have the right to redeem the SBLF preferred stock at any time subject to consultation with our federal banking regulator. The payment of dividends on the SBLF preferred stock reduces the amount of earnings available to pay dividends to common shareholders, as described in the next risk factor. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. The terms of the SBLF preferred stock also restrict our ability to pay dividends on, and repurchase, our common stock. 48 The dividend rate on the SBLF preferred stock will fluctuate initially. The cost to us of the capital we received from the SBLF preferred stock will increase significantly if the level of our “Qualified Small Business Lending” decreases. The dividend rate on the SBLF preferred stock will fluctuate initially. The cost to us of the capital we received from the SBLF preferred stock will increase significantly if the level of our “Qualified Small Business Lending” decreases. The per annum dividend rate on the SBLF preferred stock can fluctuate on a quarterly basis during the first ten quarters during which the SBLF preferred stock is outstanding, based upon changes in the amount of “Qualified Small Business Lending” or “QSBL” by the Bank from a “baseline” level (the average of the Bank’s quarter-end QSBL for the four quarters ended June 30, 2010, adjusted for balance increases attributable to acquisitions, mergers, or purchases of loans; the Bank’s adjusted QSBL baseline is $188.6 million. The dividend rate for the SBLF preferred stock has varied between 1.00000% and 3.90230% for the initial six measurement periods (beginning March 31, 2011, through June 30, 2012). For the seventh dividend period through the tenth dividend period, the dividend rate may be adjusted to between one percent and five percent, to reflect the amount of percentage change in the Bank’s level of QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the second quarter preceding the dividend period in question. For the eleventh dividend period to four and one half years after the issuance date (i.e., to January 19, 2016), the per annum dividend rate will be fixed at between one percent (1%) and five percent (5%), based upon the increase in QSBL from the baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (i.e., as of September 30, 2013), or will be fixed at seven percent (7%) if there is no increase (or if there is a decrease) in QSBL from the baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period. From and after four and one-half years from the issuance date, the dividend rate will be fixed at nine percent (9%), regardless of the amount of QSBL. In addition, if there is no increase (or if there is a decrease) in QSBL from the baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period, then beginning on January 1, 2014 and on all dividend payment dates thereafter ending on April 1, 2016, we must pay on each outstanding share of SBLF preferred stock a lending incentive fee of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the liquidation amount per share (effectively increasing the per annum dividend rate to nine percent (9.0%)). For fiscal 2012, the SBLF dividend rate averaged approximately 2.14%, providing an annualized cost of this capital to us of approximately $428,000. An increase in the dividend rate to five percent would increase the annual cost of this capital to $1.0 million and an increase to nine percent would increase the annual cost of this capital to $1.8 million. Depending on our financial condition at the time, any such increases in the dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and the availability of funds to pay dividends on our common stock. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. As of June 30, 2012 we had outstanding $7.2 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities by a subsidiary of ours that is a statutory business trust. We have also guaranteed those trust preferred securities. The indenture under which the junior subordinated debt securities were issued, together with the guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock (including the SBLF preferred stock and our common stock) at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture; or (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the guarantee; or (iii) we have elected to defer payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities from time to time for up to five years. 49 Events of default under the indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the SBLF preferred stock and our common stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of the SBLF preferred stock or our common stock, and from making any payments to holders of the SBLF preferred stock or our common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock or the SBLF preferred stock, we may issue additional series of junior subordinated debt securities in the future with terms similar to those of our existing junior subordinated debt securities or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 50 