Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to considering the other information in this Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following factors. The risks described below are the significant risks we face and include all material risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or risks that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. During 2010 we entered into an agreement with Ely and as a result of completion of the Feasibility Study in February 2012 have earned an 80% interest in the Mt. Hamilton project through our membership interest in MH-LLC. We currently intend to develop this property. The potential development of the Mt. Hamilton project has inherent risks to Solitario including permitting, finance, mining operations and closure, for which Solitario has limited experience, resources and personnel. Failure on any of these or other components of the planned development of the Mt. Hamilton project could contribute to our inability to profitably develop, operate and close the Mt. Hamilton project, which could result in the loss of our investment in MH-LLC, and the loss of all or a significant portion of our financial reserves. The development of mining properties involves a high degree of risk including the requirement to obtain permits, the need for significant financial resources for the construction and development of an operating mine, operational expertise and reclamation. Permitting of a mine for development can be an expensive and uncertain endeavor, with no assurance of receiving required permits in a timely manner, if ever. We do not have a history of developing or operating mines and may not be able to acquire the additional personnel to adequately manage such operations. In addition, the financial resources required to put a mine into production and to sustain profitable operating mines are significant and far exceed our existing financial resources and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financial resources. We are permitting the Mt. Hamilton Project under an Environmental Assessment (“EA”) with the United States Forest Service (the “Forest Service”). The Forest Service is currently allowing this as the appropriate regulatory process for permitting the Mt Hamilton project. However, the Forest Service could reverse its position and require the completion of an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”), or a court could be petitioned to force Solitario to complete an EIS, even after approval of an EA. If such an event were to occur, it would significantly lengthen the permitting process and delay the start-up of a mine. In addition, we are required to obtain several major permits administered by the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection and archaeological clearance from both the USFS and the Nevada State Historical Preservation Office. Should we fail to timely complete any of the activities required for the planned development of the Mt. Hamilton project, or if upon completion of the development of the Mt. Hamilton project we are unable to operate the project profitably, it could result in the loss of our investment in MH-LLC, the loss of all or a 6 Table of Contents significant portion of our financial reserves and be a detriment to our other exploration assets. The failure to permit, develop, operate and close the Mt. Hamilton project on a timely and profitable basis could negatively affect our stock price and our financial position and operational results. Our development and operational plans for Mt. Hamilton as well as projected economic results rely substantially upon the Feasibility Study prepared by SRK. The Feasibility Study makes certain assumptions regarding the mining, processing and environmental reclamation parameters, as well as estimates for capital costs to build the mine, costs to operate the mine, environmental regulations to build, operate and reclaim the mine, and revenues generated based upon the assumed grade of ore, recovery of gold and silver, as well as future market price of gold and silver. There are significant risks that the assumptions made in the Feasibility Study may not be accurate when, and if, we build and operate the mine, or that we may not be able to achieve the results anticipated in the Feasibility Study. The Feasibility Study relies substantially upon many assumptions, including, but not limited to, the accuracy of the estimated proven and probable reserves, the estimated versus actual recovery of gold and silver, the requirements and timing for environmental approvals, the cost to build the mine and processing plant, the cost of operating the mine, closure costs, and availability of necessary personnel to operate the mine. We can give no assurance the assumptions built into the Feasibility Study are achievable now or in the future. Costs estimated in the feasibility will change with time, and historically have escalated. Environmental requirements also will change, and usually requirements have become more strict and costly. Should we fail to timely complete any of the development components recommended in the Feasibility Study, or if upon completion of the development of the Mt. Hamilton project we are unable to operate the project as described in the Feasibility Study, it could result in the loss of our investment in MH-LLC, the loss of all or a significant portion of our financial reserves and could negatively affect our stock price, our financial position and operational results. Our mineral exploration activities involve a high degree of risk; a significant portion of our business model envisions the sale or joint venture of mineral property, prior to the establishment of reserves. If we are unable to sell or joint venture these properties, the money spent on exploration may never be recovered and we could incur an impairment of our investments in our projects. The exploration for mineral deposits involves significant financial and other risks over an extended period of time. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses are required to determine if any of our mineral properties may have the potential to be commercially viable and be salable or joint ventured. Prior to completion of the Feasibility Study on our Mt. Hamilton project, we never established reserves on any of our properties. Significant additional expense and risks, including drilling and determining the feasibility of a project, are required prior to the establishment of reserves. It is impossible to ensure that the current or proposed exploration programs on properties in which we have an interest will be commercially viable or that we will be able to sell, joint venture or develop our properties. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as its size and grade, costs and efficiency of the recovery methods that can be employed, proximity to infrastructure, financing costs and governmental regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, infrastructure, land use, importing and exporting of gold or other minerals, and environmental protection. We believe the data obtained from our own exploration activities or our partners' activities to be reliable; however, the nature of exploration of mineral properties and analysis of geological information is subjective and data and conclusions are subject to uncertainty. Even if our exploration activities determine that a project is commercially viable, it is impossible to ensure that such determination will result in a profitable sale of the project or development by a joint venture in the future and that such project will result in profitable commercial mining operations. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur an impairment of our investment in such property interest. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent, which are not recoverable. We have experienced losses of this type from time to time including during 2013 when we wrote down our investments in our Cerro Azul, Atico and Jaripo projects recording mineral property impairments totaling $13,000 and during 2012 when we wrote down our investments in our Excelsior, Triunfo and Espanola projects recording mineral property impairments totaling $31,000. We have a significant investment in Kinross Gold Corporation (“Kinross”) common stock. We have no control over fluctuations in the price of Kinross common stock, and reductions in the value of this investment could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. We have a significant investment in Kinross as of February 28, 2014. We have experienced losses in the value of Kinross stock during the past two years with the value of Kinross stock dropping from approximately $11.40 per share to a low of $4.38 per share. Further negative fluctuation in the market value of Kinross common stock could have a material impact on the market price of our common stock and our liquidity and capital resources. 7 Table of Contents Our debt could adversely affect our financial condition; and our related debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to invest in and grow our businesses. We have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013 we had $4,302,000 in short and long term indebtedness, including $3,500,000 in indebtedness pursuant to the Facility Agreement, before the remaining unamortized debt discount of $356,000 arising as a result of the warrants issued to the lender in connection with the Facility Agreement, and as of February 28, 2014 we have $4,406,000 of short and long term indebtedness before the remaining unamortized debt discount of $248,000. We likely will seek to draw down additional amounts under the terms of the Facility Agreement during 2014. Amounts outstanding under the Facility Agreement incur interest at the 90-day LIBOR rate plus 5% with interest being payable quarterly. Accordingly, if the LIBOR rates increase the corresponding interest rate under the Facility Agreement will increase. The servicing of this debt will require the Company to devote a substantial portion of its financial resources to its repayment, and as a result such funds will not be available to use in future operations, or investing in our businesses. Further, loans extended under the Facility Agreement are secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets and therefore if the Company defaults under the Facility Agreement it could result in the lender attempting to foreclose on those assets to satisfy the Company’s debt obligations. During 2013 and 2012 we have borrowed money using our UBS short-term credit line, secured by our investment in Kinross. In the event this borrowing increases, or the price of a share of Kinross common stock decreases, we may be subject to a margin call against our investment in Kinross. As of February 28, 2014, we have outstanding borrowing of $906,000 against our UBS short-term credit line secured by our investment in Kinross. Our UBS short-term credit line operates similar to a margin account and provides that if the net equity in our investment in Kinross, defined as the market value our equity holdings, consisting primarily of Kinross common stock, falls below a minimum margin equity level, the UBS may demand immediate payment or sell as much Kinross stock as necessary to repay the short-term credit line (a "Margin Call"). A significant decline in the market value of Kinross could result in the sale of some or all our investment in Kinross at a steep discount to the current investment balance. Such a Margin Call could have a negative effect on our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. The market for shares of our common stock has limited liquidity and the market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The liquidity of our shares, or ability of a shareholder to buy or sell our common stock, may be significantly limited for various unforeseeable periods. The average combined daily volume of our shares traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and NYSE MKT during 2013 was approximately 29,000 shares. The market price of our shares has historically fluctuated within a wide range. The price of our common stock may be affected by many factors, including an adverse change in our business, a decline in gold or other commodity prices, negative news on our projects and general economic trends. Our mineral exploration and development activities are inherently dangerous and could cause us to incur significant unexpected costs including legal liability for loss of life, damage to property and environmental damage, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our operations are subject to the hazards and risks normally related to exploration or development of a mineral deposit including mapping and sampling, drilling, road building, trenching, assaying and analyzing rock samples, transportation over primitive roads or via small contract aircraft or helicopters and severe weather conditions, any of which could result in damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for such damage. Any of these risks could cause us to incur significant unexpected costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to finance our exploration and development activities. We have a history of losses and if we do not operate profitably in the future it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations and the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. We have reported losses in 18 of our 20 years of operations. We reported losses of $2,052,000 and $3,297,000, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. We have had net income in only two years in our history, during 2003, as a result of a $5,438,000 gain on derivative instrument related to our investment in certain Crown Resources Corporation warrants and during 2000, when we sold our Yanacocha property. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will be profitable again. If we do not operate profitably, the trading price of our common stock will likely decline. 8 Table of Contents Our operations outside of the United States of America may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as changing political, local and economic conditions, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our mineral properties located in Latin America consist primarily of mineral concessions granted by national governmental agencies and are held 100% by us or in conjunction with our joint venture partners, or under lease, option or purchase agreements. Our mineral properties are located in Peru, Mexico and Brazil. We act as operator on all of our mineral properties that are not held in joint ventures. The success of projects held under joint ventures that are not operated by us is substantially dependent on the joint venture partner, over which we have limited or no control. Our exploration activities and mineral properties located outside of the United States of America ("United States") are subject to the laws of Peru, Brazil and Mexico, where we operate. Exploration and potential development activities in these countries are potentially subject to political and economic risks, including: · cancellation or renegotiation of contracts; · disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to US laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; · changes in foreign laws or regulations; · changes in tax laws; · royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; · expropriation or nationalization of property; · currency fluctuations (particularly related to declines in the US dollar compared to local currencies); · foreign exchange controls; · restrictions on the ability for us to hold US dollars or other foreign currencies in offshore bank accounts; · import and export regulations; · environmental controls; · risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; and · other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in which our exploration activities are conducted. Due to ongoing uncertainty regarding Bolivian mining law and mining rights, during 2012 we decided to cease operations in Bolivia and wrote-off our two Bolivian properties, Triunfo and Espanola, recording a mineral property write-down of $25,000. We do not anticipate returning to do exploration in Bolivia in the near future. During 2013 Mexico imposed additional production taxes on metal mines and also holding costs. Accordingly, our current exploration activities outside of the United States may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from such activities, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside of the United States or may not be successful in subjecting persons to the jurisdictions of the courts in the United States, which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. We may not have sufficient funding for exploration and development, which may impair our profitability and growth. The capital required for exploration and development of mineral properties is substantial. We have financed operations through utilization of joint venture arrangements with third parties (generally providing that the third party will obtain a specified percentage of our interest in a certain property or a subsidiary owning a property in exchange for the expenditure of a specified amount), the sale of interests in properties or other assets, the sale of strategic investments in other companies such as Kinross, short-term margin loans, a three year credit facility and the issuance of common stock. At some point in the future, we will need to raise additional cash, or enter into joint venture arrangements, in order to fund permitting and development activities to place Mt. Hamilton into production and in the case of our exploration projects, the exploration activities required to determine whether mineral deposits on our projects are commercially viable. New financing or acceptable joint venture partners may or may not be available on a basis that is acceptable to us. Inability to obtain new financing or joint venture partners on acceptable terms may prohibit us from continued development or exploration of our mineral properties. Without successful sale or future development of our mineral properties through joint ventures, or on our own, we will not be able to realize any profit from our interests in such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our investment in MH-LLC includes the obligation to make payments to underlying leaseholders; failure to make all of the payments due to underlying leaseholders may result in losing all of our interest in the Mt. Hamilton project. In connection with the formation of MH-LLC we agreed to make certain annual payments and certain royalty buyout payments to underlying holders of leases at Mt. Hamilton as further described below in Item 2 “Mineral Properties.” Failure to make any of these payments to underlying leaseholders may result in the loss of our entire interest in MH-LLC and the Mt. Hamilton project. A large number of companies are engaged in the exploration and development of mineral properties, many of which have substantially greater technical and financial resources than us and, accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively in the mining industry which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We may be at a disadvantage with respect to many of our competitors in the acquisition, exploration and development of mining projects. Our competitors with greater financial resources than us will be better able to withstand the uncertainties and fluctuations associated with sustained downturns in the market and to acquire high quality exploration and mining properties when market conditions are favorable. In addition, we compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key executives and other employees with technical skills and experience in the mineral exploration business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced employees or to acquire additional exploration projects. The realization of any of these risks from competitors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The title to our mineral properties may be defective or challenged which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In connection with the acquisition of our mineral properties, we conduct limited reviews of title and related matters, and obtain certain representations regarding ownership. These limited reviews do not necessarily preclude third parties from challenging our title and, furthermore, our title may be defective. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we hold good and marketable title to all of our mineral interests. Additionally, we have to make annual filings to various government agencies on all of our mineral properties. If we fail to make such filings, or improperly document such filings, the validity of our title to a mineral property could be lost or challenged. If any of our mineral interests were challenged, we could incur significant costs in defending such a challenge. These costs or an adverse ruling with regards to any challenge of our titles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We have no reported mineral reserves, other than at our Mt. Hamilton project, and if we are unsuccessful in identifying mineral reserves in the future, we may not be able to realize any profit from these property interests. None of our Latin American projects have reported mineral reserves. Any mineral reserves on these projects will only come from extensive additional exploration, engineering and evaluation of existing or future mineral properties. The lack of reserves on these mineral properties could prohibit us from sale or joint venture of our mineral properties and we would not be able to realize any profit from our interests in such mineral properties, which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Additionally, if we or partners to whom we may joint venture these mineral properties are unable to develop reserves on our mineral properties we may be unable to realize any profit from our interests in such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Our operations could be negatively affected by existing as well as potential changes in laws and regulatory requirements that we are subject to, including regulation of mineral exploration and land ownership, environmental regulations and taxation. The exploration and development of mineral properties is subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate in a variety of ways, including regulation of mineral exploration and land ownership, environmental regulation and taxation. These laws and regulations, as well as future interpretation of or changes to existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in capital and operating costs to us and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. In the countries in which we operate, in order to obtain permits for exploration or potential future development of mineral properties, environmental regulations generally require a description of the existing environment, both natural, archeological and socio-economic, at the project site and in the region; an interpretation of the nature and magnitude of potential environmental impacts that might result from such activities; and a description and evaluation of the effectiveness of the operational measures planned to mitigate the environmental impacts. The total expenditures on our Mt. Hamilton project are 10 Table of Contents budgeted to be approximately $1,729,000 during 2014, which includes property payments and payments directly and indirectly related to permitting. These payments could increase as a result of permitting delays or challenges during the year, which we cannot accurately predict. Currently the expenditures to obtain exploration permits to conduct our exploration activities are not material to our total exploration cost. The laws and regulations in all the countries in which we operate are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive, especially environmental laws and regulations. As part of our ongoing exploration activities, we have made expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but such expenditure could substantially increase our costs to achieve compliance in the future. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain government permits and approvals or significant changes in regulation could have a material adverse effect on our exploration activities, our ability to locate economic mineral deposits, and our potential to sell, joint venture or eventually develop our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may materially adversely affect our business. Mineral exploration is subject to risks of human injury, environmental liability and loss of assets. We maintain limited insurance coverage to protect ourselves against certain risks related to loss of assets for equipment in our operations and limited corporate liability coverage; however, we have elected not to have insurance for other risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons including those risks where insurance may not be available. There are additional risks in connection with investments in parts of the world where civil unrest, war, nationalist movements, political violence or economic crisis are possible. These countries may also pose heightened risks of expropriation of assets, business interruption, increased taxation and a unilateral modification of concessions and contracts. We do not maintain insurance against political risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Severe weather or violent storms could materially affect our operations due to damage or delays caused by such weather. Our exploration and development activities in Peru, Brazil, Mexico and Mt. Hamilton (Nevada) are subject to normal seasonal weather conditions that often hamper and may temporarily prevent exploration or development activities. There is a risk that unexpectedly harsh weather or violent storms could affect areas where we conduct these activities. Delays or damage caused by severe weather could materially affect our operations or our financial position. Our business is extremely dependent on the market price of gold and other commodities and currency exchange rates over which we have no control. Our operations are significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold and other commodities since the evaluation of whether a mineral deposit is commercially viable is heavily dependent upon the market price of gold and other commodities. The price of commodities also affects the value of exploration projects we own or may wish to acquire or joint venture. These prices of commodities fluctuate on a daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The supply and demand for gold and other commodities, the level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, investment decisions by large holders of these commodities, including governmental reserves, and stability of exchange rates can all cause significant fluctuations in prices. Currency exchange rates relative to the United States dollar can affect the cost of doing business in a foreign country in United States dollar terms, which is our functional currency. Consequently, the cost of conducting exploration in the countries where we operate, accounted for in United States dollars, can fluctuate based upon changes in currency exchange rates and may be higher than we anticipate in terms of United States dollars because of a decrease in the relative strength of the United States dollar to currencies of the countries where we operate. We currently do not hedge against currency or commodity fluctuations. The prices of commodities as well as currency exchange rates have fluctuated widely and future significant price declines in commodities or changes in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Our business is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of our key executives could adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the services of key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, Christopher E. Herald, our Chief Financial Officer, James R. Maronick, and our Chief Operating Officer, Walter H. Hunt. All of the above named officers have many years of experience and an extensive background in Solitario and the mining industry in general. We may not be able to replace that experience and knowledge with other individuals. We do not have "Key-Man" life insurance policies on any of our key executives. The loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees may adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our business model relies significantly on other companies to joint venture our projects and we anticipate continuing this practice in the future. Therefore, our results are subject to the additional risks associated with the financial condition, operational expertise and corporate priorities of our joint venture partners. Three of our four most important projects, Bongará, Pedra Branca and Pachuca Norte, are joint-ventured with other mining companies that manage the exploration and development activities on these projects and we are the minority-interest party. Although our joint venture agreements with each of these three companies provide certain voting rights and other minority-interest safeguards, the majority partner not only manages operations, but controls most decisions, including budgets and scope and pace of exploration and development activities. Consequently, we are highly dependent on the operational expertise and financial condition of our joint venture partners, as well as their own corporate priorities. For instance, even though our joint venture property may be highly prospective for exploration success, or economically viable based on feasibility studies, our partner may decide to not fund the further exploration or development of our project based on their respective financial condition or other corporate priorities. Therefore our results are subject to the additional risks associated with the financial condition, operational expertise and corporate priorities of our joint venture partners, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In addition to our Mt. Hamilton project, we may look to joint venture with another mining company in the future to develop and/or operate one of our foreign projects; therefore, in the future, our results may become subject to additional risks associated with development and production of our foreign mining projects. We are not currently involved in mining development or operating activities at any of our properties located outside of the United States. In order to realize a profit from these mineral interests we either have to: (1) sell such properties outright at a profit; (2) form a joint venture for the project with a larger mining company with greater resources, both technical and financial, to further develop and/or operate the project at a profit; (3) develop and operate such projects at a profit on our own; or (4) create and retain a royalty interest in a property with a third party that agrees to advance the property toward development and mining. In the future, if our exploration results show sufficient promise in one of our foreign projects, we may either look to form a joint venture with another mining company to develop and/or operate the project, or sell the property outright and retain partial ownership or a retained royalty based on the success of such project. Therefore, in the future, our results may become subject to the additional risks associated with development and production of mining projects in general. In the future, we may participate in a transaction to acquire a property, royalty or another company that requires a substantial amount of capital or Solitario equity to complete. Our acquisition costs may never be recovered due to changing market conditions, or our own miscalculation concerning the recoverability of our acquisition investment. Such an occurrence could adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. We have been involved in evaluating a wide variety of acquisition opportunities involving mineral properties and companies for acquisition and we anticipate evaluating potential acquisition opportunities in the future. Some of these opportunities may involve a substantial amount of capital or Solitario equity to successfully acquire. As many of these opportunities do not have reliable feasibility-level studies, we may have to rely on our own estimates for investment analysis. Such estimates, by their very nature, contain substantial uncertainty. In addition, economic assumptions, such as future costs and commodity prices, also contain significant uncertainty. Consequently, if we are successful in acquiring any new acquisitions and our estimates prove to be in error, either through miscalculations or changing market conditions, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As a Colorado corporation, we are subject to the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit United States companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or other improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with our company, are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, and therefore our exploration, development, production and mine closure activities are subject to the disadvantage of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to these prohibitions. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the countries outside of the United States in which we operate. Our mineral properties are located in countries that may have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict 12 Table of Contents with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices or we are found to be liable for FCPA violations, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 