Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to considering the other information in this Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following factors. The risks described below are the significant risks we face and include all material risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or risks that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. During 2010, we entered into an agreement with Ely to acquire up to 80% of the Mt. Hamilton project through our membership interest in MH-LLC. We currently intend to develop this property. The potential development of the Mt. Hamilton project adds new risks to Solitario including permitting, finance, mining operations and closure, for which Solitario has limited experience, resources and personnel. Failure on any of these or other components of the planned development of the Mt. Hamilton project could contribute to our inability to profitably develop, operate and close the Mt. Hamilton project, which could result in the loss of our investment in MH-LLC, and the loss of all or a significant portion of our financial reserves. The development of mining properties involves a high degree of risk including the requirement to obtain permits, significant financial resources for the construction and development of an operating mine, operational expertise and reclamation. Permitting of a mine for development can be an expensive and uncertain endeavor, with no assurance of receiving required permits in a timely manner, if ever. We do not have a history of developing or operating mines and may not be able to acquire the additional personnel to adequately manage such operations. In addition, the financial resources required to put a mine into production and to sustain profitable operating mines is significant and far exceed our existing financial resources and there can be no assurance that we could obtain such financial resources. Should we fail to timely complete any of the activities required for the planned development of the Mt. Hamilton project or if u pon completion of the development of the Mt. Hamilton project we are unable to operate the project profitably, it could result in the loss of our investment in Mt. Hamilton, the loss of all or a significant portion of our financial reserves and be a detriment to our other exploration assets. The failure to permit, develop, operate and close the Mt. Hamilton project on a timely and profitable basis could negatively affect our stock price and our financial position and operational results. Our mineral exploration activities involve a high degree of risk; a significant portion of our business model envisions the sale or joint venture of mineral property, prior to the establishment of reserves. If we are unable to sell or joint venture these properties, the money spent on exploration may never be recovered and we could incur an impairment on our investments in our projects. The exploration for mineral deposits involves significant financial and other risks over an extended period of time. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses are required to determine if any of our mineral properties may have the potential to be commercially viable and be salable or joint ventured. We have never established reserves on any of our properties. Significant additional expense and risks, including drilling and determining the feasibility of a project, are required prior to the establishment of reserves. These additional costs potentially diminish the value of our properties for sale or joint venture. It is impossible to ensure that the current or proposed exploration programs on properties in which we have an interest will be commercially viable or that we will be able to sell, joint venture or develop our properties. Whether a mineral deposit will be commer cially viable depends on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as its size and grade, costs and efficiency of the recovery methods that can be employed, proximity to infrastructure, financing costs and governmental regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, infrastructure, land use, importing and exporting of gold or other minerals, and environmental protection. 6 <PAGE> > We believe the data obtained from our own exploration activities or our partners' activities to be reliable, however the nature of exploration of mineral properties and analysis of geological information is subjective and data and conclusions are subject to uncertainty including invalid data as a result of many reasons, including sample contamination, analysis variation, extrapolation, undetected instrumentation malfunctions and the use of geologic and economic assumptions. Even if our exploration activities determine that a project is commercially viable, it is impossible to ensure that such determination will result in a profitable sale of the project or development by a joint venture in the future and that such project will result in profitable commercial mining operations. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur an impairment of our investment in such property interest. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent, which are not recoverable. We have experienced losses of this type from time to time including during 2010 when we wrote down our investment in our Santiago, Cajatambo, La Noria and Palmira projects, recording mineral property impairment of $55,000. We recorded mineral property impairment of $51,000 during 2009. We have a significant investment in Kinross common stock. We have no control over fluctuations in the price of Kinross common stock and reductions in the value of this investment could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. We have a significant investment in Kinross as of March 8, 2011. A significant fluctuation in the market value of Kinross common shares could have a material impact on our investment in Kinross, the market price of our common stock and our liquidity and capital resources. During 2010 and 2011 we have borrowed money using short-term margin accounts, secured by our investment in Kinross. In the event this borrowing increases, or the price of a share of Kinross common stock decreases, we may be subject to a margin call against our investment in Kinross. As of March 8, 2011 we have borrowed $3,875,000 in short term margin loans, secured by our investment in Kinross. These margin loans provide that if the net equity in our investment in Kinross, defined as the market value our equity holdings, consisting primarily of Kinross common stock, falls below a minimum margin equity level of between 35% and 40%, the lender of the short term margin loans may demand immediate payment or sell as much Kinross stock to repay the margin loan (a "Margin Call"). A significant decline in the market value of Kinross could result in the sale of some or all our investment in Kinross at a steep discount to the current investment balance. Such a Margin Call could have a negative effect on our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. The market for shares of our common stock has limited liquidity and the market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The liquidity of our shares, or ability of the shareholder to buy or sell our common stock, may be significantly limited for various unforeseeable periods. The average combined daily volume of our shares traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (the "TSX") and the NYSE Amex Equities ("NYSE Amex") during 2010 was approximately 30,000 shares, with no shares traded on many days. The market price of our shares has historically fluctuated in a wide range. Please see Item 5 - "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities." The price of our common stock may be affected by many factors, including adverse change in our business, a decline in gold or other commodity prices, and general economic trends. Our mineral exploration activities are inherently dangerous and could cause us to incur significant unexpected costs including legal liability for loss of life, damage to property and environmental damage; any of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our operations are subject to the hazards and risks normally related to exploration of a mineral deposit including mapping and sampling, drilling, road building, trenching, assaying and analyzing rock samples, transportation over primitive roads or via small contract aircraft or helicopters and severe weather conditions, any of which could result in damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for such damage. Any of these risks could cause us to incur significant unexpected costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to finance our exploration activities. 7 <PAGE> We have a history of losses and if we do not operate profitably in the future it could have a material adverse affect on our financial position or results of operations and the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. We have reported losses in 15 of our 17 years of operations. We reported losses of $4,066,000 and $1,786,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. We have had net income in only two years in our history, during 2003, as a result of a $5,438,000 gain on derivative instrument related to our investment in certain Crown warrants and during 2000, when we sold our Yanacocha property. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will be profitable again. If we do not operate profitably, the trading price of our common stock will likely decline. Our operations outside of the United States of America may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as changing political, local and economic conditions; any of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our mineral properties located in Latin America consist primarily of mineral concessions granted by national governmental agencies and are held 100% by us or under lease, option or purchase agreements. Our mineral properties are located in Peru, Bolivia, Mexico and Brazil. We act as operator on all of our mineral properties that are not held in joint ventures. The success of projects held under joint ventures that are not operated by us is substantially dependent on the joint venture partner, over which we have limited or no control. Our exploration activities and mineral properties located outside of the United States of America ("United States") are subject to the laws of Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Mexico, where we operate. Exploration and potential development activities in these countries are potentially subject to political and economic risks, including: cancellation or renegotiation of contracts; disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to US laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; changes in foreign laws or regulations; changes in tax laws; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; expropriation or nationalization of property; currency fluctuations (particularly related to declines in the US dollar compared to local currencies); foreign exchange controls; restrictions on the ability for us to hold US dollars or other foreign currencies in offshore bank accounts; import and export regulations; environmental controls; risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; and other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in which our exploration activities are conducted. During 2006, the government of Bolivia took steps toward the nationalization of its oil and gas industry by unilaterally increasing taxes payable by private owners of oil and gas properties. In 2007 the government effectively increased corporate taxes on mining companies from 25% to 37.5% of profits. More recently, the government has proposed sweeping changes in the mining law concerning the amount of mining rights private companies may own, and the potential for the Bolivian government to effectively become a carried 50% partner in mining operations. These political and legal uncertainties could have an adverse effect upon our projects in Bolivia. We have significantly reduced our activities in Bolivia, while monitoring this situation. Our capitalized costs in Bolivia are approximately $25,000 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Consequently, our current exploration activities outside of the United States may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from such activities, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside of the United States or may not be successful in subjecting persons to the jurisdictions of the courts in the United States, which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. 8 <PAGE> We may not have sufficient funding for exploration and potential development; which may impair our profitability and growth. The capital required for exploration and potential development of mineral properties is substantial. We have financed operations through utilization of joint venture arrangements with third parties (generally providing that the third party will obtain a specified percentage of our interest in a certain property or a subsidiary owning a property in exchange for the expenditure of a specified amount), the sale of interests in properties or other assets, the sale of strategic investments in other companies such as Kinross, short-term margin loans and the issuance of common stock. At some point in the future, we will need to raise additional cash, or enter into joint venture arrangements, in order to fund the exploration activities required to determine whether mineral deposits on our projects are commercially viable and in the case of MH-LLC, potential funding for development activities to place the project into production. New f inancing or acceptable joint venture partners may or may not be available on a basis that is acceptable to us. Inability to obtain new financing or joint venture partners on acceptable terms may prohibit us from continued exploration or potential development of such mineral properties. Without successful sale or future development of our mineral properties through joint ventures, or on our own, we will not be able to realize any profit from our interests in such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our investment in MH-LLC includes the obligation to make payments necessary to provide Ely with the funds for Ely to repay a long-term loan secured by the assets of the Mt. Hamilton project; failure to make all of the payments associated with MH-LLC including those due to underlying leaseholders may result in losing all of our interest in the Mt. Hamilton project. In connection with the formation of MH-LLC, the Mt. Hamilton properties contributed by DHI-US to MH-LLC were subject to a security interest granted to Augusta Resource Corporation ("Augusta") related to Ely's acquisition of the Mt. Hamilton properties. Pursuant to the MH Agreement, as part of our earn-in, we agreed to make payments of $3,750,000, with $1,250,000 of that in cash to DHI-US and $2,500,000 of that in the form of private placement investments in Ely common stock, all to provide Ely with the funds necessary for Ely to make the loan payments due to Augusta. Failure to make any of the payments or investments necessary to provide Ely with funds to make the required payments due to Augusta may result in the loss of all of our interest in the Mt. Hamilton project. A large number of companies are engaged in the exploration of mineral properties, many of which have substantially greater technical and financial resources than us and, accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively in the mining industry which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We may be at a disadvantage with respect to many of our competitors in the acquisition and exploration of mining projects. The marketing of mineral properties is affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These include the price of the raw or refined minerals in the marketplace, imports of minerals from other countries, the availability of adequate milling and smelting facilities, the number and quality of other mineral properties that may be for sale or are being explored. Our competitors with greater financial resources than us will be better able to withstand the uncertainties and fluctuations associated with the marketing of exploration projects. In addition, we compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key executives and other employees with technical skills and experience in the mineral exploration business. We also compete with other mineral exploration and development companies for exploration projects. There can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced employees or to acquire additional exploration projects. The realization of any of these risks from competitors could have a material adverse affect on our financial position or results of operations. The title to our mineral properties may be defective or challenged which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In connection with the acquisition of our mineral properties, we conduct limited reviews of title and related matters, and obtain certain representations regarding ownership. These limited reviews do not necessarily preclude third parties from challenging our title and, furthermore, our title may be defective. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we hold good and marketable title to all of our mineral interests. If any of our mineral interests were challenged, we could incur significant costs in defending such a challenge. These costs or an adverse ruling with regards to any challenge of our titles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 9 <PAGE> We have no reported mineral reserves and if we are unsuccessful in identifying mineral reserves in the future, we may not be able to realize any profit from our property interests. We are an exploration stage company and have no reported mineral reserves. Any mineral reserves will only come from extensive additional exploration, engineering and evaluation of existing or future mineral properties. The lack of reserves on our mineral properties could prohibit us from sale or joint venture of our mineral properties. If we are unable to sell or develop either on our own or through a joint venture our mineral properties, we will not be able to realize any profit from our interests in such mineral properties, which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Additionally, if we or partners to whom we may joint venture our mineral properties are unable to develop reserves on our mineral properties we may be unable to realize any profit from our interests in such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Our operations could be negatively affected by existing as well as potential changes in laws and regulatory requirements that we are subject to, including regulation of mineral exploration and land ownership, environmental regulations and taxation. The exploration and potential development of mineral properties is subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate in a variety of ways, including regulation of mineral exploration and land ownership, environmental regulation and taxation. These laws and regulations, as well as future interpretation of or changes to existing laws and regulations may require substantial increases in capital and operating costs to us and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. In the countries in which we operate, in order to obtain permits for exploration or potential future development of mineral properties environmental regulations generally require a description of the existing environment, both natural, archeological and socio-economic, at the project site and in the region; an interpretation of the nature and magnitude of potential environmental impacts that might result from such activities; and a description and evaluation of the effectiveness of the operational measures planned to mitigate the environmental impacts. Currently the expenditures to obtain exploration permits to conduct our exploration activities are not material to our total exploration cost. The laws and regulations in all the countries in which we operate are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive, especially environmental laws and regulations. As part of our ongoing exploration activities, we have made expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but we cannot predict that the regulatory environment in which we operate could change in ways that would substantially increase our costs to achieve compliance. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain government permits and approvals or significant changes in regulation could have a material adverse effect on our exploration activities, our ability to locate economic mineral deposits, and our potential to sell, joint venture or eventually develop our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may materially adversely affect our business. Mineral exploration is subject to risks of human injury, environmental liability and loss of assets. We maintain limited insurance coverage to protect ourselves against certain risks related to loss of assets for equipment in our operations; however, we have elected not to have insurance for other risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons including those risks where insurance may not be available. There are additional risks in connection with investments in parts of the world where civil unrest, war, nationalist movements, political violence or economic crisis are possible. These countries may also pose heightened risks of expropriation of assets, business interruption, increased taxation and a unilateral modification of concessions and contracts. We do not maintain insurance against political risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured could have a materi al adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Severe weather or violent storms could materially affect our operations due to damage or delays caused by such weather. Our exploration activities in Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Mexico as well as our activities associated with the exploration and potential development of the Mt. Hamilton project are subject to normal seasonal weather conditions that often hamper and may temporarily prevent exploration or development activities. There is a risk that unexpectedly harsh weather or violent storms could affect areas where we conduct these activities. Delays or damage caused by severe weather could materially affect our operations or our financial position. 10 <PAGE> Our business is extremely dependent on gold, commodity prices and currency exchange rates over which we have no control. Our operations are significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold and other commodities since the evaluation of whether a mineral deposit is commercially viable is heavily dependent upon the market price of gold and other commodities. The price of commodities also affects the value of exploration projects we own or may wish to acquire. These prices of commodities fluctuate on a daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The supply and demand for gold and other commodities, the level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, investment decisions by large holders of these commodities, including governmental reserves, and stability of exchange rates can all cause significant fluctuations in prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns and monetary systems and political developments. Currency exchange rates relative to the U nite States dollar can affect the cost of doing business in a foreign country in United States dollar terms, which is our functional currency. Consequently, the cost of conducting exploration in the countries where we operate, accounted for in United States dollars, can fluctuate based upon changes in currency exchange rates and may be higher than we anticipate in terms of United States dollars because of a decrease in the relative strength of the United States dollar to currencies of the countries where we operate. We currently do not hedge against currency fluctuations. The prices of commodities have fluctuated widely and future serious price declines could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Our business is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of our key executives could adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the services of key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, Christopher E. Herald, our Chief Financial Officer, James R. Maronick, and our Chief Operating Officer, Walter H. Hunt. All of the above named officers have many years of experience and an extensive background in Solitario and the mining industry in general. We may not be able to replace that experience and knowledge with other individuals. We do not have "Key-Man" life insurance policies on any of our key executives. The loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees may adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. In addition to our Mt. Hamilton project, we may look to joint venture with another mining company in the future to develop and or operate one of our foreign projects, therefore, in the future, our results may become subject to additional risks associated with development and production of our foreign mining projects. We are not currently involved in mining development or operating activities at any of our properties located outside of the United States. In order to realize a profit from these mineral interests we either have to: (1) sell such properties outright at a profit; (2) form a joint venture for the project with a larger mining company with greater resources, both technical and financial, to further develop and/or operate the project at a profit; (3) develop and operate such projects at a profit on our own; or, 4) create and retain a royalty interest in a property with a third-party that agrees to advance the property. However, we have never developed a mineral property. In the future, if our exploration activities show sufficient promise in one of our foreign projects, we may either look to form a joint venture with another mining company to develop and or operate the project, or sell the property outright and retain partial owne rship or a retained royalty based on the success of such project. Therefore, in the future, our results may become subject to the additional risks associated with development and production of mining projects in general. In the future, we may participate in a transaction to acquire a property, royalty or another company that requires a substantial amount of capital or Solitario equity to complete. Our acquisition costs may never be recovered due to changing market conditions, or our own miscalculation concerning the recoverability of our acquisition investment. Such an occurrence could adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. We are currently involved in evaluating a wide variety of acquisition opportunities involving mineral properties and companies for acquisition. Some of these opportunities may involve a substantial amount of capital or Solitario equity to successfully acquire. As many of these opportunities do not have reliable feasibility-level studies, we may have to rely on our own estimates for investment analysis. Such estimates, by their very nature, contain substantial uncertainty. In addition, economic assumptions, such as future costs and commodity prices, also contain significant uncertainty. Consequently, if our estimates prove to be in error, either through miscalculations or changing market conditions, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 11 <PAGE> Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 