Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business is subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the Company’s results from operations and its financial condition. These risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us, including those contained in the Managements’ Discussion and Analysis and the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements appearing in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 13. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and, except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update this information. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the price for our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The lodging industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with much larger hotel chains, and its ability to compete successfully depends on its ability to offer business and leisure travelers lodging products and services that are perceived to be of equal of better quality and value than those offered by its competitors. The Company is subject to a range of operating risks common to the hotel industry. These operating risks include, but are not limited to: 1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms in the markets we operate; 2) international, national and regional economic and political conditions; the current economic conditions, which resulted in lower consumer demand for lodging and diminished corporate spending, has affected the Company’s business in the 2008 fourth quarter. This trend has continued during the first quarter of 2009. 3) the impact of war and terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity and other matter that influence and/or limit travel, such as travelers’ fears of contagious diseases (e.g. Bird Flu); 4) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes; 5) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, and cost prices of goods and services the Company uses to operate its hotels; 6) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; 7) relationships and disputes with owners of our hotels operated under management agreements. There are certain risks that pose more significant threats to the Company’s future results and financial condition, because of the particular businesses the Company is involved in and the markets in which we operate. 4 Table of Contents The Company’s Key Biscayne development partnership may experience increased costs and delays while redeveloping the site. The Company is a 50% partner in a development partnership, which was created in 2005 to redevelop the site of Sonesta Beach Resort Key Biscayne. The Company received approximately $60 million in non-refundable proceeds in April 2005 after it contributed the land and improvements of Sonesta Beach Resort Key Biscayne to the development partnership. In addition, the Company received a priority equity position, valued by the partnership at $60 million. Future proceeds are dependent on the successful redevelopment of the site, and the sales of real estate at sufficient prices to cover all costs of the development and construction. Initial partnership plans provided for the development of a luxury condominium hotel and residences, including meeting and function space, a spa and other resort facilities. Under the partnership agreement the Company was to manage the resort when completed. These plans met with considerable community opposition, and the partnership instead filed for, and received approvals in 2007 for, a 165 unit residential project. The project is currently in the preconstruction phase, pending resolution of a claim filed by an abutter of the project. In addition, current economic conditions and its impact on the South Florida real estate market have delayed the start of the development. The delays increase development costs, and will impact future proceeds from the partnership. The Company’s partner in the development partnership is a privately owned realty and development company in South Florida. Current economic conditions and their effect on the real estate market in South Florida may impact our partner’s ability to fund project costs going forward. Because the Company’s U.S. hotels are located in only three markets, a decline in market conditions in any of these markets could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results from operations. A major portion of the Company’s revenues and income is derived from its owned and leased hotels, and from its managed hotel, in the United States. The three U.S. hotels the Company operated at the end of 2008 are located in Miami, Florida, New Orleans, Louisiana, and Cambridge, Massachusetts. This means the Company’s future results are heavily dependent on the market conditions and the supply of and demand for hotel rooms in these specific markets. Hurricanes and other natural disasters can damage our properties and affect our results from operations. Two of the Company’s three U.S. hotels operating at the end of 2008 are located in New Orleans, Louisiana and in Miami, Florida. These areas are prone to hurricanes, and the Company’s financial condition will be affected if its hotels suffer damage from hurricanes, as well as from the loss of business due to hurricane activity in these areas. As a result of the high cost of insurance for these catastrophic risks, damage to hotels and loss of income may only be partially covered by insurance, since the Company, and the owner of the Company’s managed hotel, have significant deductibles, and certain caps on coverages for windstorm and flood. The Company’s property in New Orleans may continue to be adversely impacted by the loss of business and increased costs due to Hurricane Katrina. The Company operates the Royal Sonesta Hotel in New Orleans, Louisiana. The business in this market has historically been heavily dependent on group and convention business. Hurricane Katrina, which struck New Orleans in August 2005 caused major damage to the city’s convention center and infrastructure, resulting in the cancellation of substantially all group and convention business following the storm. During the period September 2005 through March 2006, the Royal Sonesta Hotel New Orleans successfully replaced the convention business with government business and other business related to the recovery and rebuilding efforts in New Orleans. However, from April 2006 forward the hotel’s results declined sharply due to the fact that group and convention business is returning very slowly to New Orleans. Business in 2008 continued to improve but has not reached pre-Katrina levels. 5 Table of Contents The Company’s fee income from its operations in Egypt may be adversely impacted by terrorism. During 2008, the Company’s management revenues from its hotels in Egypt totaled approximately $3.5 million ($2.3 million in 2007). In previous years, Egypt experienced terrorist activity, which affected tourism. Potential future terrorist incidents will affect tourism to Egypt, and the Company’s management income from this region. Under its management agreement for Sonesta BayFront Hotel Coconut Grove, the owner is entitled to receive minimum owner returns. The Company operates Sonesta BayFront Hotel Coconut Grove under a management agreement, under which it is committed to fund net operating losses, and provide the owner with minimum annual returns ($442,000 during 2008). In addition, the management agreement can be terminated by the owner if the Company elects not to cure shortfalls against a minimum target return ($1,001,000 during 2008). Both the minimum return and the minimum target return are adjusted annually by increases in the Consumer Price Index. If the earnings of the hotel are insufficient to meet the minimum return, the Company will have to reduce its fee income from the hotel. If the shortfall in earnings exceeds the fee income, the Company will incur an expense to cure the shortfall. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 