Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business is subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the Company’s results from operations and its financial condition. These risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company, including those contained in the Managements’ Discussion and Analysis and the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements appearing in the Company’s 2009 Annual Report, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 13. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and, except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update this information. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the price for our common stock could decline, and shareholders may lose all or part of their investments. The lodging industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with much larger hotel chains, and its ability to compete successfully depends on its ability to offer business and leisure travelers lodging products and services that are perceived to be of equal of better quality and value than those offered by its competitors. The Company is subject to a range of operating risks common to the hotel industry. These operating risks include, but are not limited to: 1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms in the markets where we operate; 2) international, national and regional economic and political conditions; current economic conditions, which have resulted in lower consumer demand for lodging and diminished corporate spending, have affected the Company’s business starting with the 2008 fourth quarter. This trend continued throughout 2009. Revenues have stabilized during the 2010 first quarter compared to the 2009 first quarter. 3) the impact of war and terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity) and other matters that influence and/or limit travel, such as travelers’ fears of contagious diseases; 4) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes; 5) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, and the cost of goods and services the Company uses to operate its hotels; 6) the availability and cost of capital needed by us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; 7) relationships and disputes with owners of our hotels operated under management agreements; and 8) failure to maintain the integrity of our computerized systems with regards to internal and customer data, including credit card information. 4 Table of Contents Certain risks, described below, pose more significant threats to the Company’s future results and financial condition, because of the particular businesses the Company is involved in and the markets in which we operate. Because the Company’s U.S. hotels are located in only three markets, a decline in market conditions in any of these markets could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results from operations. A major portion of the Company’s revenues and income is derived from its owned and leased hotels, and from its managed hotel, in the United States. The three U.S. hotels the Company operated at the end of 2009 are located in Miami, Florida, New Orleans, Louisiana, and Cambridge, Massachusetts. This means the Company’s future results are heavily dependent on the market conditions and the supply of and demand for hotel rooms in these specific markets. Hurricanes and other natural disasters can damage our properties and affect our results from operations. Two of the Company’s three U.S. hotels operating at the end of 2009 are located in New Orleans, Louisiana and in Miami, Florida. These areas are prone to hurricanes, and the Company’s financial condition will be affected if its hotels suffer damage from hurricanes, as well as from the loss of business due to hurricane activity in these areas. As a result of the high cost of insurance for these catastrophic risks, damage to hotels and loss of income may only be partially covered by insurance, since the Company, and the owner of the Company’s managed hotel, have significant deductibles, and certain caps on coverages for windstorm and flood. The Company’s fee income from its operations in Egypt may be adversely impacted by terrorism. During 2009, the Company’s management revenues from its hotels in Egypt totaled approximately $2.4 million ($3.5 million in 2008). In previous years, Egypt experienced terrorist activity, which affected tourism. Potential future terrorist incidents will affect tourism to Egypt, and the Company’s management income from this region. Under its management agreement for Sonesta Bayfront Hotel Coconut Grove, the owner is entitled to receive minimum owner returns. The Company operates Sonesta Bayfront Hotel Coconut Grove under a management agreement, under which it is committed to fund net operating losses, and provide the owner with minimum annual returns ($419,000 during 2009). In addition, the management agreement can be terminated by the owner if the Company elects not to cure shortfalls against a minimum target return ($978,000 during 2009). Both the minimum return and the minimum target return are adjusted annually by increases in the Consumer Price Index. If the earnings of the hotel are insufficient to meet the minimum return, the Company will have to reduce its fee income from the hotel. If the shortfall in earnings exceeds the fee income, the Company will incur an expense to cure the shortfall. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 