ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business Volatile metal prices can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our sales and operating income could decrease if metal prices decline or if we are unable to pass producer price increases on to our customers. Our principal raw materials are carbon, coated and stainless steel, and aluminum, pipe and tube, flat rolled sheet, coil and plate that we typically purchase from multiple primary metal producers. The metal industry as a whole is cyclical and, at times, pricing and availability of metal can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, sales levels, competition, levels of inventory held by other metals service centers, consolidation of metal producers, higher raw material costs for the producers of metal, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us. We, like many other metals service centers, maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase metal in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historic buying practices, supply agreements with customers and market conditions. Our commitments to purchase metal are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time we place our orders. We have no long-term, fixed-price metal purchase contracts. When metal prices increase, competitive conditions will influence how much of the price increase we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the net sales and profitability of our business could be adversely affected. When metal prices decline, customer demands for lower prices and our competitors’ responses to those demands could result in lower sale prices and, consequently, lower margins and inventory lower of cost or market adjustments as we use existing inventory. Significant or rapid declines in metal prices or reductions in sales volumes could adversely impact our ability to remain in compliance with certain financial covenants in our revolving credit facility, as well as result in us incurring inventory or goodwill impairment charges. Changing metal prices therefore could significantly impact our net sales, gross margins, operating income and net income. China is the world’s largest producer and consumer of steel and steel products, which are integral to its current large scale industrial expansion. This large and growing demand for steel by China has significantly affected the global steel industry. Actions by domestic and foreign producers, including steel companies in China, to increase production could result in an increased supply of steel in the United States, which could result in lower prices for our products. Further, should China experience an economic downturn or slowing of its growth, its steel consumption could decrease and some of the supply it currently uses could be diverted to the U.S. markets we serve, which could depress steel prices. A decline in steel prices could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. We service industries that are highly cyclical, and any downturn in our customers’ demand could reduce our sales, margins and profitability. We sell our products in a variety of industries, including capital equipment manufacturers for industrial, agricultural and construction use, the automotive industry, the utilities industry, and manufacturers of fabricated metal products. Our largest category of customers is producers of industrial machinery and equipment. Numerous factors, such as general economic conditions, government stimulus or regulation, availability of adequate credit and financing, consumer confidence, significant business interruptions, labor shortages or work stoppages, energy prices, seasonality, customer inventory levels and other factors beyond our control, may cause significant demand fluctuations from one or more of these industries. Any decrease in demand within one or more of these industries may be significant and may last for a lengthy period of time. In periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States and downturns in demand, excess customer or service center inventory or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries could result in lower sales, margins and profitability. 12 Table of Contents Approximately 9.9% of our 2011 consolidated sales were to automotive manufacturers or manufacturers of automotive components and parts, whom we refer to as automotive customers. Historically, due to the concentration of customers in the automotive industry, our gross margins on these sales have generally been less than our margins on sales to customers in other industries. Customer and third-party credit constraints and credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In climates of global financial and banking crises, decreased sales volume and consolidation among capital providers to the metal industry have impacted the ability of many of our customers and certain third party entities to obtain and/or maintain credit availability. In particular, certain customers that are highly leveraged represent an increased credit risk. Some customers have reduced their purchases because of these credit constraints. Moreover, our disciplined credit policies have, in some instances, resulted in lost sales. In recent years, we have experienced an increase in customer bankruptcies and could see further increases if credit availability becomes further constrained. Were we to lose sales or customers due to these actions, or if we have misjudged our credit estimations and they result in future credit losses, there could be a material adverse effect on business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Continued difficulty in credit markets could reduce our customers’ abilities to obtain the liquidity necessary to participate in a recovering market. Our success is dependent upon our relationships with certain key customers. We have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of customers. Collectively, our top three customers accounted for approximately 11.4% and 13.2% of our consolidated revenues in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Many of our larger customers commit to purchase on a regular basis at agreed upon prices over periods from three to twelve months. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, the relationship, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated with relatively little advance notice. The loss of any one of our major customers or decrease in demand by those customers or credit constraints placed on them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to successfully integrate CTI into our business and to achieve the expected results of the acquisition could adversely impact our business and results of operations. During 2011, we initiated several projects in order to integrate CTI into our business. We have embarked on a sales integration process with the sales forces of Olympic Steel and CTI to further service our customer with both flat and tubular and pipe products. Although the projects have been successful so far, we can provide no assurance that the continued integration will be successful. We are dependent on CTI’s management team and the management team at Olympic Steel for the integration process. We are also dependent on CTI’s relationships with their customers and suppliers. A loss of any member of the management teams or any customers or suppliers could prevent us from achieving the expected results of the acquisition which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The integration of our new facility startups and the installation of new processing equipment at our existing locations require significant use of capital, management and employee time. Any deviation from the plan can jeopardize the timeframe and to achievement of expected results and could impact our results of operations. We are in the process of integrating several new facilities in the United States and one facility in Mexico into our current operations. We are also in the process of installing new processing equipment at our existing locations. Risks associated with the integration and installations include, but are not limited to: • a significant deployment of capital and a significant use of management and employee time; • equipment installation delays or malfunctions; • the possibility that the equipment vendors may not be able to complete the project as planned; • the possibility that the timelines, costs or complexities related to the integration and installations will be greater than expected; and • the possibility that disruptions from the integration and installations may make it difficult for us to maintain relationships with our respective customers, employees or suppliers; 13 Table of Contents Although we have successfully integrated new facilities and installed new processing equipment in the past, we can provide no assurance that the current integrations and installations will be successful, will occur as planned and without disruption to operations, or achieve expected results. Difficulties associated with the integration of new facilities and installations of new processing equipment could adversely affect our business, our customer service, our results of operations and our cash flows. Our implementation of new information systems could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are in the process of implementing new information systems and consolidating our legacy operating systems into the new systems. The objective is to standardize and streamline business processes and improve support for our growing service center and fabrication business. Risks associated with the phased implementation include, but are not limited to: • a significant deployment of capital and a significant use of management and employee time; • the possibility that the software vendors may not be able to complete the project as planned; • the possibility that the timelines, costs or complexities related to the new system implementations will be greater than expected; • the possibility that the software, once fully implemented, does not work as planned; • the possibility that benefits from the new systems may be less or take longer to realize than expected; • the possibility that disruptions from the implementation may make it difficult for us to maintain relationships with our respective customers, employees or suppliers; and • limitations on the availability and adequacy of proprietary software or consulting, training and project management services, as well as our ability to retain key personnel assigned to the project. Although we successfully initiated use of the new system at eleven of our locations, we can provide no assurance that the rollout to the remaining locations will be successful or will occur as planned and without disruption to operations. Difficulties associated with the design and implementation of new information systems could adversely affect our business, our customer service, our results of operations and our cash flows. The failure of our key computer-based systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. Until our new systems implementations are completed, we maintain separate regional computer-based systems in the operation of our business and we depend on these systems to a significant degree, particularly for inventory management. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornado and other natural disasters, power loss, computer system and network failures, operator negligence, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches and computer viruses. Although we have secure back-up systems off-site, the destruction or failure of any one of our computer-based systems for any significant period of time could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks associated with our growth strategy may adversely impact our ability to sustain our growth. Historically, we have grown internally by increasing sales and services to our existing customers, aggressively pursuing new customers and services, building or purchasing new facilities and acquiring and upgrading processing equipment in order to expand the range of customer services that we offer. In addition, we have grown through external expansion through the acquisition of other service centers and related businesses. We intend to actively pursue our growth strategy in the future. We have recently commenced a number of expansion projects and completed an acquisition. These, or future expansion or construction projects, could have adverse effects on our results of operations due to the impact of the associated start-up costs and the potential for underutilization in the start-up phase of a facility. While we are pursuing potential acquisition targets, we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Moreover, in pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete for acquisition targets with other companies with similar growth strategies that may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competition among potential acquirers could result in increased prices for acquisition targets. As a result, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms to us, or at all. 14 Table of Contents The pursuit of acquisitions may divert management’s time and attention away from day-to-day operations. In order to achieve growth through acquisitions, expansion of current facilities, greenfield construction or otherwise, additional funding sources may be needed and we may not be able to obtain the additional capital necessary to pursue our growth strategy on terms that are satisfactory to us, or at all. Although we expect to finance our future and in-process growth initiatives through borrowings under our credit facility, we may have to find additional sources of funding, which could be difficult. Additionally, increased leverage could adversely impact our business and results of operations. On July 1, 2011, we amended the loan agreement in order to fund our acquisition of CTI. We expect to finance our future and in-process growth initiatives through borrowings governing our credit facility which matures on June 30, 2016. However, our credit facility may not be sufficient or available to finance our growth initiatives, and we may have to find additional sources of financing. It may be difficult for us in the future to obtain the necessary funds and liquidity to run and expand our business. Additionally, if we incur substantial additional debt, including under our credit facility, our leverage could increase as could the risks associated with such leverage. A high degree of leverage could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; and • increase our costs and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. Our success is dependent upon the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. We have employment agreements, which include non-competition provisions, with our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, the President of our recently acquired subsidiary, CTI, and our Chief Financial Officer that expire on January 1, 2013, January 1, 2016, July 1, 2016 and January 1, 2017, respectively. The loss of any member of our senior management team or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and continuing to grow our business at a rate necessary to maintain future profitability. Labor disruptions at any of our facilities or those of major customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 1,700 people. Approximately 376 of the hourly plant personnel at our Detroit, Michigan; Duluth, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Locust, North Carolina; Milan, Illinois; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Romeoville, Illinois; and St. Paul, Minnesota facilities are represented by nine separate collective bargaining units. The collective bargaining agreements covering our Locust, Minneapolis plate and Detroit facilities’ workers expire on March 4, 2012, March 31, 2012, and August 31, 2012, respectively. Collective bargaining agreements covering our St. Paul, Romeoville and Milan facilities workers expire May 25, 2013, May 31, 2013 and August 12, 2013, respectively. The collective bargaining agreement covering our Duluth facility expires on December 21, 2014. The collective bargaining agreements covering our Minneapolis coil and Indianapolis facility workers expire September 30, 2015 and January 24, 2016, respectively. Any prolonged work stoppages by our personnel represented by collective bargaining units could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, many of our larger customers, including those in the automotive industry, have unionized workforces and some in the past have experienced significant labor disruptions such as work stoppages, slow-downs and strikes. A labor 15 Table of Contents disruption at one or more of our major customers could interrupt production or sales by that customer and cause that customer to halt or limit orders for our products. Any such reduction in the demand for our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An interruption in the sources of our metal supply could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent years, the metal producing supply base has experienced significant consolidation with a few domestic producers accounting for a majority of the domestic metal market. Collectively, we purchased approximately 49% and 37% of our total metal requirements from our three largest suppliers in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The number of available suppliers could be reduced in the future by factors such as further industry consolidation or bankruptcies affecting metal suppliers. Additionally, fewer available suppliers increases the risk of supply disruption through both scheduled and unscheduled mill outages. Supply disruption risk has been further increased by the planned reductions of metal production in the United States that have taken place since 2009 and the historically low levels of inventory held at metals service centers. We have no long-term supply commitments with our metal suppliers. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of metal on a timely basis, we may not be able to obtain metal from alternate sources at competitive prices. In addition, interruptions or reductions in our supply of metal could make it difficult to satisfy our customers’ just-in-time delivery requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, the addition of new mill sources, which could lead to increased domestic supply, could lead to a decrease in steel prices. We may not be able to retain or expand our customer base if the U.S. manufacturing industry continues to erode or if the U.S. dollar strengthens. Our customer base primarily includes manufacturing and industrial firms in the United States, some of which are, or have considered, relocating production operations outside the United States or outsourcing particular functions outside the United States. Some customers have closed because they were unable to compete successfully with foreign competitors. Our facilities are primarily located in the United States and, therefore, to the extent that our customers relocate or move operations where we do not have a presence, we could lose their business. Some customers have been able to continue to manufacture items in the United States for export to foreign markets, due to the relative strength of certain foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar were to strengthen, products made by U.S. manufacturers could become less attractive to foreign buyers. Less purchases by foreign buyers could reduce our metal sales to those U.S. manufacturers. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with metals service centers and, to a certain degree, metal producers and intermediate metal processors, on a regular basis, primarily on quality, price, inventory availability and the ability to meet the delivery schedules and service requirements of our customers. We have different competitors for each of our products and within each region. Certain of these competitors have financial and operating resources in excess of ours. Increased competition could lower our margins or reduce our market share and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Increases in energy prices would increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices. If our energy costs increase disproportionately to our revenues, our earnings could be reduced. We use energy to process and transport our products. Our operating costs increase if energy costs, including electricity, diesel fuel and natural gas, rise. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. In addition, we generally do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. Increases in energy and fuel prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability if we are unable to pass all of the increases on to our customers. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and related compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our businesses are subject to many federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the use, handling, treatment, and disposal of substances and wastes used or generated in our manufacturing processes. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. We may in the future be required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of property, and for addressing environmental conditions. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Consequently, we cannot assure you that existing or future circumstances, the development of new facts or the failure of third parties to address contamination at current or former facilities or properties will not require significant expenditures by us. We expect to continue to be subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. We anticipate that compliance will continue to require increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising for example out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect our results of operations, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Historically, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. Furthermore, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors described herein. Examples include: • changes in commodity prices, especially metals; • announcement of our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other metals service centers; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; • the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • developments affecting us, our customers or our suppliers; • press releases, earnings releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in the metals service center industry; • inability to meet securities analysts’ and investors’ quarterly or annual estimates or targets of our performance; • sales of our common stock by large shareholders; • general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, dispositions or joint ventures, or other material events impacting the domestic or global metal industry. In the past, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their specific operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. In the past, some shareholders have brought securities class action lawsuits against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, regardless of whether our defense is ultimately successful, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 17 Table of Contents Our quarterly results may be volatile. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our operating results may be below the expectations of our investors or stock market analysts as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to, the risk factors listed above. Many factors could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Further, it is our practice not to provide forward-looking sales or earnings guidance and not to endorse any analyst’s sales or earnings estimates. Nonetheless, if our results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, our stock price could materially decrease. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Ohio law could delay or prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you may consider to be in your best interest. We are subject to Chapter 1704 of the Ohio Revised Code, which prohibits certain business combinations and transactions between an “issuing public corporation” and an “Ohio law interested shareholder” for at least three years after the Ohio law interested shareholder attains 10% ownership, unless the Board of Directors of the issuing public corporation approves the transaction before the Ohio law interest shareholder attains 10% ownership. We are also subject to Section 1701.831 of the Ohio Revised Code, which provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition.” Assuming compliance with the notice and information filings prescribed by the statute, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if the acquisition is approved by a majority of the voting power of the issuer represented at the meeting and at least a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the “interested shares.” Certain provisions contained in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Code of Regulations and Ohio law could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us that you may consider to be in your best interest more difficult. For example, these provisions: • allow our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; • provide for our Board of Directors to be divided into two classes of directors serving staggered terms; • limit who can call a special meeting of shareholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at shareholder meetings. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. Principal shareholders who own a significant numbers of shares of our common stock may have interests that conflict with yours. Michael D. Siegal, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and one of our largest shareholders, owned approximately 11.6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. Mr. Siegal may have the ability to significantly influence matters requiring shareholder approval. In deciding how to vote on such matters, Mr. Siegal may be influenced by interests that conflict with yours. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 