Risk Factors) below and the following: • general and global business, economic and political conditions; • competitive factors such as the availability and pricing of steel, industry inventory levels and rapid fluctuations in customer demand and pricing; • the cyclicality and volatility within the steel industry; • the ability of our customers (especially in the automotive industry) to maintain their credit availability; • layoffs or work stoppages by our own or our suppliers’ or customers’ personnel; • the availability of transportation and logistical services; • equipment malfunctions or installation delays; • the successes of our strategic efforts and initiatives to increase sales volumes, maintain cash turnover, maintain or improve inventory turns and reduce our costs; • the adequacy of our information technology and business system software; 9 • the operating and financial results of our joint ventures, including the timing and outcome of OLP’s efforts and ability to liquidate its assets and the impact of customer, supplier, and competitive factors on OLP’s liquidation plans; and • customer, supplier, and competitor consolidation, bankruptcy or insolvency. Should one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, intended, expected, believed, estimated, projected or planned. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances after the date hereof. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business Volatile steel prices can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our sales and operating income could decrease if we are unable to pass producer price increases on to our customers. Our principal raw material is flat-rolled carbon, coated and stainless steel that we typically purchase from multiple primary steel producers. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical and at times pricing and availability of steel can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, sales levels, competition, consolidation of steel producers, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us. We, like many other steel service centers, maintain substantial inventories of steel to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase steel in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historic buying practices, contracts with customers and market conditions. Our commitments to purchase steel are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time we place our orders. We have no long-term, fixed-price steel purchase contracts. When steel prices increase, competitive conditions will influence how much of the price increase we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the net sales and profitability of our business could be adversely affected. When steel prices decline, customer demands for lower prices and our competitors’ responses to those demands could result in lower sale prices and, consequently, lower margins as we use existing steel inventory. Changing steel prices therefore could significantly impact our net sales, gross margins, operating income and net income. During 2004, steel producers were significantly impacted by a shortage of raw materials, rising raw material prices, increased product demand, producer consolidation and longer lead time requirements. These conditions resulted in unprecedented cost increases and translated into higher selling prices, gross profit dollars and margin percentages. During 2004, we were able to pass producers’ price increases and surcharges on to our customers. The base price of carbon flat-rolled steel began declining in September 2004, continuing into August 2005. Higher levels of inventory at steel service centers and end-use customers caused competitive pressures which compressed gross margin percentages during the first nine months of 2005. Steel pricing began increasing in the late third quarter of 2005 and remained relatively level during the fourth quarter of 2005, resulting in higher gross margin percentages. China is a large consumer of steel and steel products, which are integral to its current large scale industrial expansion. This large and growing demand for steel by China has significantly affected the global steel industry. Actions by our domestic and foreign competitors, including steel companies in China, to increase production, could result in an increased supply of steel in the United States which could result in lower prices for our products. Further, should China experience an economic downturn or slowing of its growth, its steel consumption could decrease and some of the supply it currently uses could be diverted to the U.S. markets we serve, which could depress steel prices. A decline in steel prices could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. 11 An interruption in the sources of our steel supply could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Recently, the steel producing supply base has experienced significant consolidation with the three largest domestic producers, Mittal, Nucor and US Steel, accounting for a majority of the domestic steel market. We purchased approximately 47% and 48% of our total steel requirements from these suppliers in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The number of available suppliers could be reduced in the future by factors such as further industry consolidation or bankruptcies affecting steel suppliers. Although we have no long-term supply commitments, we believe we have good relationships with each of our steel suppliers. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of steel on a timely basis, we may not be able to obtain steel from alternate sources at competitive prices. In addition, interruptions or reductions in our supply of steel could make it difficult to satisfy our customers’ just-in-time delivery requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We service industries that are highly cyclical, and any downturn in our customers’ industries could reduce our sales, margins, and profitability. We sell our products in a variety of industries, including capital equipment manufacturers for industrial, agricultural and construction use, the automotive industry, and manufacturers of fabricated metal products. Our largest category of customers is producers of industrial machinery and equipment. Numerous factors, such as general economic conditions, consumer confidence, significant business interruptions, labor shortages or work stoppages, energy prices, seasonality and other factors beyond our control, may cause significant demand fluctuations from one or more of these industries. Any decrease in demand within one or more of these industries may be significant and may last for a lengthy period of time. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States, downturns in demand, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries, could result in lower sales, margins and profitability. Approximately 12% of our sales in 2004 and 2005 were directly to automotive manufacturers or manufacturers of automotive components and parts. Due to the concentration of customers in this industry our gross margins on these sales are generally less than our margins on sales to customers in other industries. Further pressure by the automotive manufactures to reduce their costs could result in even lower margins. If we are unable to generate sufficient future cash flow on our sales to automotive customers, we may be required to record an impairment charge against the assets which are used to service those customers. Our success is dependent upon our relationships with certain key customers. We have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of customers. Our top three customers accounted for approximately 22% and 15% of our revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Many of our larger customers commit to purchase on a regular basis at agreed upon prices ranging from three to twelve months. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, the relationship, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated with relatively little advance notice. The loss of any one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Customer credit constraints and credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In climates of higher steel prices, increased sales volume and consolidation among capital providers to the steel industry, the ability of our customers to maintain credit availability has become more challenging. In particular, certain customers in the automotive industry represent an increasing credit risk. Some customers have reduced their purchases because of these credit constraints. Moreover, our disciplined credit policies have, in some instances, resulted in lost sales. In recent years, we have experienced an increase in customer bankruptcies. Were we to lose sales or customers due to these actions, or if we have misjudged our credit estimations and they result in future credit losses, there could be a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 12 We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. Our success is dependent upon the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer that expire on December 31, 2006, and an employment agreement with our President and Chief Operating Officer that expires on January 1, 2011. The loss of any members of our senior management team or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and continuing to grow our business at a rate necessary to maintain future profitability. Labor disruptions at any of our facilities or those of major customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Approximately 211 of the hourly plant personnel at our Minneapolis and Detroit facilities are represented by four separate collective bargaining units. The collective bargaining agreement covering hourly plant employees at our Minneapolis plate facility expires April 1, 2006 and, subject to the satisfactory completion of current negotiations, we believe that we will be able to reach agreement on a new contract. Collective bargaining agreements covering other Detroit and Minneapolis employees expire in 2007 and subsequent years. Any prolonged disruption in business arising from work stoppages by personnel represented by collective bargaining units could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, many of our significant customers, including in the automotive industry, have unionized workforces and have sometimes experienced significant labor disruptions such as work stoppages, slow-downs and strikes. A labor disruption at one or more of our major customers could interrupt production or sales by that customer and cause that customer to halt or limit orders for our products. Any such reduction in the demand for our products could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks associated with our growth strategy may adversely impact our ability to sustain our growth and our stock price may decline. Historically, we have grown internally by increasing sales and services to our existing customers, aggressively pursuing new customers and services, building new facilities, and acquiring and upgrading processing equipment in order to expand the range of value-added services we offer. In addition, we have grown through external expansion by the acquisition of other steel service centers and related businesses. We intend to continue to actively pursue our growth strategy in the future. The future expansion of an existing facility or construction on a new facility could have adverse effects on our results of operations due to the impact of the start-up costs and the potential for underutilization in the start-up phase of a facility. Consolidation in our industry has reduced the number of potential acquisition targets, and we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Moreover, in pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete for acquisition targets with other companies with similar growth strategies which may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competition among potential acquirers could result in increased prices for acquisition targets. As a result, we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms. Pursuit of acquisitions may divert management’s time and attention away from day-to-day operations. In order to achieve growth through acquisitions, expansion of current facilities, greenfield construction or otherwise, additional funding sources may be needed, and we may not be able to obtain the additional capital necessary to pursue our growth strategy on terms which are satisfactory. The failure of our key computer-based systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently maintain three separate computer-based systems in the operation of our business and we depend on these systems to a significant degree, particularly for inventory management. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornado and other natural disasters, power loss, computer system and network failures, operator negligence, physical and electronic loss of data, or 13 security breaches and computer viruses. The destruction or failure of any one of our computer-based systems for any significant period of time could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We are currently investigating a potential new single system alternative to replace the three systems we currently use. The implementation of such a new system could require a significant deployment of capital and a significant use of management’s time. The implementation of a new system could result in difficulties or delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to retain or expand our customer base if the United States manufacturing industry continues to erode. Our customer base primarily includes manufacturing and industrial firms in the United States, some of which are, or have considered, relocating production operations outside the United States or outsourcing particular functions outside the United States. Some customers have closed as they were unable to compete successfully with foreign competitors. Our facilities are located in the United States and, therefore, to the extent that our customers relocate or move operations where we do not have a presence, we could lose their business. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with steel service centers and, to a certain degree, steel producers and intermediate steel processors, on a regular basis, primarily on quality, price, inventory availability and the ability to meet the delivery schedules of our customers. We have different competitors for each of our products and within each region. Certain of these competitors have financial and operating resources in excess of ours. Increased competition could lower our margins or reduce our market share and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Increases in energy prices would increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices. If our energy costs increase disproportionately to our revenues, our earnings could be reduced. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. Our operating costs increase if energy costs, including electricity, gasoline and natural gas, rise. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. In addition, we generally do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers. 14 We expect to finance our future growth through borrowings under our bank credit facility. Increased leverage could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Although we had no bank debt at the end of 2005, as we incur additional debt under our credit facility or otherwise to finance future growth, our leverage will increase as will the risks associated with such leverage. A high degree of leverage could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the steel industry. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. Furthermore, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors listed herein. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Our quarterly results may be volatile. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our operating results may be below the expectations of our investors as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include, but are not limited, the risk factors listed above. Many factors could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Further, it is our practice not to provide forward-looking sales or earnings guidance and not to endorse any analyst’s sales or earnings estimates. Nonetheless, if our results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, our stock price could materially decrease. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 