Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business is subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the Company’s results from operations and its financial condition. These risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the Managements’ Discussion and Analysis and the footnotes to the Company’s 2005 Annual Report, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 13. The lodging industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with much larger hotel chains, and its ability to compete successfully depends on its ability to offer business and leisure travelers lodging products and services that are perceived to be of equal of better quality and value than those offered by its competitors. The Company is subject to a range of operating risks common to the hotel industry. These operating risks include, but are not limited to: 1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms in the markets we operate; 2) international, national and regional economic and political conditions; 3) the impact of war and terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity and other matter that influence and/or limit travel, such as travelers’ fears of contagious diseases (i.e. Asian Flu); 4) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes; 5) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, and cost prices of goods and services the Company uses to operate our hotels; 6) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; 7) relationships and disputes with owners of our hotels operated under management agreements. There are certain risks that pose a more significant threat to the Company’s future results and financial condition, because of the particular businesses the Company is involved in, and the markets in which we operate. These include: 1) the Company is a 50% partner in a development partnership, which was created in 2005 to redevelop the site of Sonesta Beach Resort Key Biscayne. This transaction is described in detail in Note 2 on pages 16 through 18 of the 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, filed herewith as Exhibit 13. The Company received approximately $60 million in non-refundable proceeds in April 2005 after it contributed the land and improvements of Sonesta Beach Resort Key Biscayne to the development partnership. In addition, the Company received an equity position, valued by the partnership at $60 million. Future proceeds are dependent on the successful development of a new resort, and the sales of condominium units at sufficient prices to cover all costs of the development and construction of the new resort; 2) a major portion of the Company’s revenues and income is derived from its owned and leased hotels, and from its managed hotels, in the United States. Of the Company’s six (6) U.S. hotels, three (3) are located in the Miami, Florida area, two (2) are located in New Orleans, and one (1) is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. This means the Company’s future results are heavily dependent on the market conditions and the supply of and demand for hotel rooms in these specific markets; 3) five of the Company’s six U.S. hotels are located either in New Orleans or in the Miami, Florida area. These areas are prone to hurricanes, and the Company’s financial condition will be impacted if its hotels suffer damage from hurricanes, as well as from the loss of business due to hurricane activity in these areas. In 2005, the Company’s results were impacted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which affected the New Orleans region, and by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, which affected the Miami, Florida area. As a result of the high cost of insurance for these catastrophic risks, damage to hotels and loss of income may only be partially covered by insurance, since the Company, and the owners of the Company’s managed hotels, have significant deductibles, and certain caps on coverages for windstorm and flood; 4) the Company operates two (2) hotels in New Orleans, Louisiana. The business in this market has historically been heavily dependent on group and convention business. Hurricane Katrina, which struck New Orleans on August 29, 2005, caused major damage to the city’s convention center and infrastructure, which caused the cancellation of substantially all group and convention business following the storm. To date, the Company’s hotels, in particular Royal Sonesta Hotel New Orleans, have been successful in replacing the convention business with government business and other business related to the recovery and rebuilding efforts in New Orleans. Going forward, especially when more hotels reopen after repairing damage from the storm, results of New Orleans hotels will be heavily dependent on the return of group and convention business to the City of New Orleans. In addition, the impact of Hurricane Katrina forced a very significant number of the Company’s employees to leave the City due to lack of housing. Replacement staff is in very short supply, and the hotels will face an increase in payroll costs as a result, especially as they resume full business operations, including operations of all food and beverage outlets; 5) during 2005, the Company’s management revenues from its hotels in Egypt totaled approximately $1.9 million ($2.0 million in 2004). In previous years, Egypt has experienced terrorist activity, which affected tourism. Potential future terrorist incidents will affect tourism to Egypt, and the Company’s management income from this region. Item 