Item 1A. Risk Factors. We discuss expectations regarding our future performance and make other forward-looking statements in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral statements. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our operating plans. They are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could turn out to be significantly different from our expectations. The following discussion of risks and uncertainties which is not exclusive, highlights some important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results. Our customers’ buying process for our products is highly decentralized, and therefore, it typically requires significant time and expense for us to further penetrate the potential market of a specific customer, which may delay our ability to generate additional revenue. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to further penetrate our customer base. During 2005, 40.6% of our revenue was attributable to sales to our existing customers, compared to 52.7% in 2004. If we are not able to continue to penetrate our existing customer base, our sales growth will be impaired. Most of our customers have a decentralized buying process for measurement devices. Thus, we must spend significant time and resources to increase revenues from a specific customer. For example, we may provide products to only one of our customers manufacturing facilities or for a specific product line within a manufacturing facility. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase the amount of sales to our existing customers. 10 Others may develop products that make our products obsolete or less competitive. The CAM2 market is emerging and could be characterized by rapid technological change. Others may develop new or improved products, processes or technologies that may make our products obsolete or less competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to evolving markets and technologies or maintain our technological advantage. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain our technological advantage by developing new products and applications and enhancing our existing products. Developing new products and applications and enhancing our existing products can be complex and time-consuming and will require substantial investment by us. Significant delays in new product releases or difficulties in developing new products could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because our customers are concentrated in a few industries, a reduction in sales to any one of these industries could cause a significant decline in our revenues. An economic slowdown in manufacturing will affect our growth and profitability. A significant portion of our sales are to manufacturers in the automotive, aerospace and heavy equipment industries. We are dependent upon the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers in these industries, which are highly cyclical and dependent upon the general health of the economy and consumer spending. The cyclical nature of these industries may exert significant influence on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, the volume of orders from our customers and the prices of our products may be adversely impacted by decreases in capital spending by a significant portion of our customers during recessionary periods. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with providing products and services to our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the products provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our inability to protect our patents and proprietary rights in the United States and foreign countries could adversely affect our revenues. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary right protection for our processes and products in the United States and other countries. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing inventions to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our technology and trade secrets, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and contractors. Our employees may breach these agreements or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by inventors. If we are unable to obtain or maintain protection of our patents, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. Our patent protection involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. We may be able to protect our proprietary rights from infringement by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary processes and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Litigation or other proceedings to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant time and money and could otherwise adversely affect our business. 11 Claims from others that we infringe their intellectual property rights may adversely affect our operations. From time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products or require us to pay damages. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may be costly and may require significant time and attention of our management and technical personnel. On November 25, 2003, Cimcore-Romer (now a division of Hexagon) filed a patent infringement suit against us in the Federal District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that certain of our products sold in the United States, including the FARO Arm, infringe U.S. Patent 5,829,148 (‘148 patent). A summary of this litigation is set forth in Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) of this report. In the event of an adverse ruling in the Cimcore-Romer litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of any infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license, if available, from Cimcore-Romer with royalty payment obligations by us. At this time, however, the Company cannot estimate the potential impact, if any, that might result from this suit, and therefore, no provision has been made to cover such expense. We may not be able to achieve financial results within our target goals, and our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to achieve financial results that are within our goals is subject to a number of factors, some of which our beyond our control. Moreover, our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and likely will vary significantly in the future. Factors that cause our financial results to fluctuate include those set forth elsewhere in this report and the following: · the size and timing of customer orders, many of which are received towards the end of the quarter; · the effectiveness of sales promotions and sales of demonstration equipment; · geographic expansion in the Asia/Pacific region and other regions and the effects of governmental or other actions relating to our operations in China; · the loss of future business in China as a result of, among other things, the outcome of our investigation into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act including the expense, distraction and changes in personnel, as well as modifications to our business practices and compliance programs; · training and ramp-up time for new sales people; · investments in technologies and new products; · our effective tax rate; · the outcomes of the patent infringement lawsuit filed by Cimcore-Romer and the purported class action lawsuit; 12 · the amount of time that it takes to fulfill orders and ship our products; · the length of our sales cycle to new customers and the time and expense incurred in further penetrating our existing customer base; · increases in operating expenses for product development and new product marketing; · costs associated with new product introductions, such as assembly line start-up costs and low introductory period production volumes; · the timing and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; · customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products and product enhancements; · our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; · start-up costs and ramp-up time associated with opening new sales offices outside of the United States; · potential decreases in revenue without proportionate adjustments in fixed costs; · the efficiencies achieved in managing inventories and fixed assets; · investments in potential acquisitions or strategic sales, product or other initiatives; · shrinkage or other inventory losses due to product obsolescence, scrap or material price changes; and · adverse changes in the manufacturing industry and general economic conditions. Any one or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our annual and quarterly operating results in the future and could cause us to fail to achieve our target financial results. The CAM2 market is an emerging market and our growth depends on the ability of our products to attain broad market acceptance. The market for traditional fixed-base CMMs, check fixtures, and other handheld measurement tools is mature. Part of our strategy is to continue to displace these traditional measurement devices. Displacing traditional measurement devices and achieving broad market acceptance of our products requires significant effort to convince manufacturers to reevaluate their historical measurement procedures and methodologies. Because the CAM2 market is emerging, the potential size and growth rate of the CAM2 market is uncertain and difficult to quantify. If the CAM2 market does not continue to expand or does not expand at least as quickly as we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our sales growth, which also may affect our profitability. 13 We market six closely interdependent products (Faro Arm, Digital Template, Scan Arm, Faro Laser Scanner LS, Faro Laser Tracker and Faro Gage) and related software for use in measurement and inspection applications. Substantially all our revenues are currently derived from sales of these products and software and we plan to continue our business strategy of focusing on the portable software-driven, 3-D measurement and inspection market. Consequently, our financial performance will depend in large part on portable, computer-based measurement and inspection products achieving broad market acceptance. If our products cannot attain broad market acceptance, we will not grow as anticipated and may be required to make increased expenditures on research and development for new applications or new products. We compete with manufacturers of portable measurement systems and traditional measurement devices, many of which have more resources than us and may develop new products and technologies. The broad market for measurement devices is highly competitive. In the Faro Gage product line, we compete with manufacturers of handheld measurement tools and fixed-base CMMs, including some large, well-established companies. In the Faro Arm, Faro Scan Arm, Faro Laser Tracker, and Faro Laser Scanner LS product lines, we compete primarily with Hexagon Metrology, a division of Hexagon. We also compete in these product lines with a number of other smaller competitors. We will be required to make continued investments in technology and product development to maintain the technological advantage that we believe we currently have over our competition. Some of our competitors, including some manufacturers of fixed based CMMs and Hexagon, possess substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we possess. Moreover, we cannot be certain that our technology or our product development efforts will allow us to successfully compete as the industry evolves. As the market for our portable measurement systems expands, additional competition may emerge and the Company’s existing and future competitors may commit more resources to the markets in which the Company participates. For example, fixed-base CMM manufacturers are introducing CAD-based inspection software in response to the trend toward CAD-based factory floor metrology. In addition, some fixed-base CMM manufacturers are miniaturizing and increasing the mobility of their conventional CMMs. We derive a substantial part of our revenues from our international operations, which are subject to greater volatility and often require more management time and expense to achieve profitability than our domestic operations. Since 2000, we have derived approximately half of our sales from international operations. In our experience, entry into new international markets requires considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development, hiring and establishing office facilities before any significant revenues are generated. As a result, initial operations in a new market may operate at low margins or may be unprofitable. Our international operations are subject to various risks, including: · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · political and economic instability; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; · longer customer payment cycles and difficulty collecting accounts receivable; · export duties, import controls and trade restrictions; · governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the United States; 14 · burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Because our foreign subsidiaries maintain their financial records and statements in their respective local currencies, our consolidated financial results are affected by foreign currency translation adjustments. Moreover, several of the countries where we operate have emerging or developing economies, which may be subject to greater currency volatility, negative growth, high inflation, limited availability of foreign exchange and other risks. These factors may harm our results of operations and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective. In addition, our foreign operations are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which makes illegal any payments to foreign officials or employees of foreign governments that are intended to induce them to use their influence to assist us or to gain any improper advantage for us. As previously reported on the Company’s Form 8-K dated March 15, 2006, the Company learned that its China subsidiary had made payments to certain customers in China that may have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable laws. We voluntarily notified the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) of this matter. If the SEC or the DOJ determines that violations of the FCPA have occurred, they could seek civil and criminal sanctions, including monetary penalties, against the Company and/or certain of its employees, as well as additional changes to the Company’s business practices and compliance programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company business and financial condition. In addition, such actions, whether actual or alleged, could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Further, detecting, investigating, and resolving such actions is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. We may not be able to identify, consummate or achieve expected benefits from acquisitions. We have completed three significant acquisitions since our initial public offering in 1997. We may pursue access to additional technologies, complementary product lines and sales channels through selective acquisitions and strategic investments. We may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. In the past we have used our stock as consideration for acquisitions. Our common stock may not remain at a price at which it can be used as consideration for acquisitions without diluting our existing shareholders, and potential acquisition candidates may not view our stock attractively. Realization of the benefits of acquisitions often requires integration of some or all of the acquired companies’ sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, finance and administrative organizations. The integration of acquisitions demands substantial attention from senior management and the management of the acquired companies. Any acquisition may be subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including: · the inability to assimilate effectively the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies (some of which may be located in diverse geographic regions); · the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · the need or obligation to divest portions of the acquired companies; and 15 · the potential impairment of relationships with customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate successfully any acquisitions, that any acquired companies will operate profitably or that we will realize the expected benefits from any acquisition. We may face difficulties managing growth. If our business continues to grow rapidly in the future, we expect it to result in: · increased complexity · increased responsibility for existing and new management personnel; and · incremental strain on our operations and financial and management systems. If we are not able to manage future growth, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. Our dependence on suppliers for materials could impair our ability to manufacture our products. Outside vendors provide key components used by us in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that alternative sources for these components are available, any supply interruption in a limited source component would harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a component, either known or unknown to us, or incompatible with our manufacturing processes, could harm our ability to manufacture our products. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain a supplier for the manufacture of components of our potential products, we may experience delays or interruptions in our operations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience volatility in our stock price. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · developments in the industries in which we operate; · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; · speculation in the press or investment community; and · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors. Our common stock’s market price may also be affected by our inability to meet analyst and investor expectations and failure to achieve projected financial results. Any failure to meet such expectations or projected financial results, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Volatility in our stock price may result in your inability to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. 16 In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is instigated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are a defendant in several shareholder class-action lawsuits. We and certain of our officers were named as defendants in purported class action complaints filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Orlando Division. The lead plaintiff in the securities litigation seeks an unspecified amount of damages, premised on allegations that each defendant made misrepresentations and omissions of material fact during the class period in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A summary of the securities litigation is set forth in Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) of this report. Although the Company believes that the material allegations made in the amended complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the securities litigation, no assurances can be given with respect to the outcome of the securities litigation. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and provisions of Florida law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and provisions of Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to you. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions include: · a limitation on shareholders’ ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders; · advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; · our classified board of directors, which means that approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; and · the authority of the board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. The provisions described above could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of us, or our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We had no comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that were unresolved as of the date of filing of this report. 17 Item 