ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results, including components of operating results such as gross margin and cost of product sales, may fluctuate from time to time, and such fluctuations could affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • economic conditions in the United States or abroad, especially in Europe, which could affect the ability of hospitals and other customers to purchase our products and could result in a reduction in elective and non-reimbursed operative procedures; • the impact of acquisitions; • the impact of our restructuring activities; • the timing of significant customer orders, which tend to increase in the fourth quarter to coincide with the end of budget cycles for many hospitals; • market acceptance of our existing products, as well as products in development; • the timing of regulatory approvals; • changes in the rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies of foreign countries in which we do business, such as the euro and the British pound; • expenses incurred and business lost in connection with product field correction actions or recalls; • changes in the cost or decreases in the supply of raw materials, including energy and steel; • our ability to manufacture our products efficiently or in sufficient quantities to meet sales demands; • the timing of our research and development expenditures; • reimbursement for our products by third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurers; • inspections of our manufacturing facilities for compliance with Quality System Regulations (Good Manufacturing Practices) which could result in Form 483 observations, warning letters, injunctions or other adverse findings from the FDA or from equivalent regulatory bodies; • the FDA’s reform to the 510(k) Premarket Notification process which could make it more difficult to obtain clearance of our medical devices and could result in the requirement of clinical trial data in order to obtain FDA clearance; and • the increased regulatory scrutiny of certain of our products, including products which we manufacture for others, could result in their being removed from the market. The industry and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies. In general, there is intense competition among medical device companies. We compete with established medical technology companies in many of our product areas. Competition also comes from early-stage companies that have alternative technological solutions for our primary clinical targets, as well as universities, research institutions and other non-profit entities. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, research and development, marketing, manufacturing, sales, distribution, administrative, consulting and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be more effective at developing commercial products. Our competitors may be able to gain market share by offering lower-cost products or by offering products that enjoy better reimbursement methodologies from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurance. 15 Table of Contents Our competitive position will depend on our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approval for products under development, obtain and maintain reimbursement coverage under Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurance and obtain patent protection. We may need to develop new applications for our products to remain competitive. Technological advances by one or more of our current or future competitors or their achievement of superior reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurance could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success will depend upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology as well as to respond effectively to technological advances. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, purchasing decisions of our customers may be based on clinical evidence or comparative effectiveness and because of our vast array of products, we might not be able to fund the studies necessary or provide the required information to compete effectively. Other companies may have more resources available to fund such studies. For example, competitors have launched and have been developing products to compete with our duraplasty products, extremity reconstruction implants, neuro critical care monitors and ultrasonic tissue ablation devices, among others. Our largest competitors in the neurosurgery markets are Medtronic, Inc., Johnson & Johnson and Stryker Corporation. In addition, many of our neurosurgery product lines compete with smaller specialized companies or larger companies that do not otherwise focus on neurosurgery. Our competitors in extremity reconstruction include Johnson & Johnson, Synthes, Inc. and Stryker Corporation, as well as other major orthopedic companies that carry a full line of reconstructive products. We also compete with Wright Medical Group, Inc., Small Bone Innovations, Inc., Tornier, Inc. and other companies in the extremity reconstruction market category. Our competitors in the spinal implant and orthobiologics markets include Medtronic, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Zimmer, Inc., NuVasive, Inc., Globus Medical, Inc., Alphatec Spine, Inc., Orthofix and several smaller, biologically focused companies. In surgical instruments, we compete with V. Mueller, as well as the Aesculap division of B. Braun Medical, Inc. In addition, we compete with Johnson & Johnson and many smaller instrument companies in the reusable and disposable specialty instruments markets. Our private-label products face diverse and broad competition, depending on the market addressed by the product. Finally, in certain cases our products compete primarily against medical practices that treat a condition without using a device or any particular product, such as the medical practices that use autograft tissue instead of our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products and nerve repair products. Our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions, which requires us to incur substantial costs and potential liabilities for which we may never realize the anticipated benefits. In addition to internally generated growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions. Since the beginning of 2009, we have acquired 6 businesses or product lines at a total cost of approximately $171.9 million. We may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and our strategy ultimately may be unsuccessful. A significant portion of our growth in revenues has resulted from, and is expected to continue to result from, the acquisition of businesses complementary to our own. We engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and are in various stages of discussion regarding possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Any new acquisition could result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense, increased operating expense, and possible in-process research and development charges for acquisitions that do not meet the definition of a “business,” any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Certain businesses that we acquire may not have adequate financial, disclosure, regulatory, quality or other compliance controls at the time we acquire them. As we grow by acquisition, we must manage and integrate the new businesses to bring them into our systems for financial, disclosure, compliance, regulatory and quality control, realize economies of scale, and control costs. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering markets in which our marketing and sales force has limited experience or where experienced distribution alliances are not 16 Table of Contents available. Our future profitability will depend in part upon our ability to develop further our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into or maintain satisfactory distribution networks. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. If we cannot integrate acquired operations, manage the cost of providing our products or price our products appropriately, our profitability could suffer. In addition, as a result of our acquisitions of other healthcare businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties, regulatory and other compliance matters or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us, for which we may not be able to obtain insurance (or adequate insurance), or for which the indemnification may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate liabilities. Our future financial results could be adversely affected by impairments or other charges. Since we have grown through acquisitions, we have $293.0 million of goodwill and $50.2 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2011. Under the authoritative guidance for determining the useful life of intangible assets, we are required to test both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We are also required to test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs such as a significant decline in revenues or cash flows for certain products, or the discount rates used in the calculations of discounted cash flow change significantly, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. If such a decline, rate change or circumstance were to materialize, we may record an impairment of these intangible assets that could be material to the financial statements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates” of this report. The guidance on long-lived assets requires that we assess the impairment of our long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable as measured by the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, we had $186.9 million of finite-lived intangible assets. Decisions relating to our trade names may occur over time as our re-branding strategy is implemented. Additionally, we may discontinue certain products in the future as we continue to assess the profitability of our product lines. As a result, we may need to record impairment charges or accelerate amortization on certain trade names or technology-related intangible assets in the future. The value of a medical device business is often volatile, and the assumptions underlying our estimates made in connection with our assessments under the guidance may change as a result of that volatility or other factors outside our control and may result in impairment charges. The amount of any such impairment charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, including the notes and the common stock into which they may be converted. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of hospitals, other customers, suppliers and distributors to access funds or otherwise have available liquidity, which could reduce orders for our products or interrupt our production or distribution or result in a reduction in elective and non-reimbursed operative procedures. Current economic conditions, especially in Europe, may adversely affect the ability of hospitals and other customers to access funds to enable them to fund their operating and capital budgets. As a result, hospitals and other customers may reduce budgets or put all or part of their budgets on hold or close their operations, which could have a negative effect on our sales, particularly the sales of more expensive capital equipment such as our ultrasonic surgical aspirators, neuromonitors and stereotactic products, or result in a reduction in elective and non-reimbursed procedures. Governmental austerity policies in Europe and other markets have reduced and may continue to reduce the amount of money available to purchase medical products, including our products. 17 Table of Contents To market our products under development we will first need to obtain regulatory approval. Further, if we fail to comply with the extensive governmental regulations that affect our business, we could be subject to penalties and could be precluded from marketing our products. As a manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, we are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and the Center for Medicare Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other federal governmental agencies and, in some jurisdictions, by state and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations govern the introduction of new medical devices, the observance of certain standards with respect to the design, manufacture, testing, labeling, promotion and sales of the devices, the maintenance of certain records, the ability to track devices, the reporting of potential product defects, the import and export of devices and other matters. We are facing an increasing amount of scrutiny and compliance costs as more states are implementing regulations governing medical devices, pharmaceuticals and/or biologics which affect many of our products. As a result, we have been implementing additional procedures, controls and tracking and reporting processes, as well as paying additional permit and license fees, where required. Our products under development are subject to FDA approval or clearance prior to marketing for commercial use. The process of obtaining necessary FDA approvals or clearances can take years and is expensive and uncertain. The FDA has implemented changes to the 510(k) premarket notification process. The FDA has issued a new Draft Guidance, “The 510(k) Program: Evaluating Substantial Equivalence in Premarket Notifications 510(k).” These changes to the 510(k) process may result in more extensive testing, clinical trial data, more extensive manufacturing information and postmarket surveillance requirements. The FDA may inspect the manufacturing facility for certain products prior to clearance of the 510(k), which is similar to the requirements of a Class III device approved under the PMA process. Our inability to obtain required regulatory approval on a timely or acceptable basis could harm our business. Further, approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed, warnings that may be required to accompany the product or additional restrictions placed on the sale and/or use of the product. Further studies, including clinical trials and FDA approvals, may be required to gain approval for the use of a product for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially approved or cleared or for significant changes to the product. These studies could take years to complete and could be expensive, and there is no guarantee that the results will convince the FDA to approve or clear the additional indication. Any negative outcome in our clinical trials, including as a result of any interim analysis which we may do with respect to our clinical trials from time to time, could adversely affect our ability to launch new products, which could affect our sales and our ability to achieve reimbursement for new or existing products. In addition, for products with an approved PMA, the FDA requires annual reports and may require post-approval surveillance programs and/or studies to monitor the products’ safety and effectiveness. Results of post-approval programs may limit or expand the further marketing of the product. We are also seeing third-party payors require clinical trial data for products cleared through the 510(k) process in order to continue reimbursement coverage. These clinical trials could take years to complete and be expensive, and there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve the additional indications for use. There is also no guarantee that the payors will agree to continue reimbursement or provide additional coverage based upon these clinical trials. If the FDA does not approve the additional indications for use, our ability to obtain reimbursement for these products and our ability to compete against alternative products or technologies could suffer and, consequently, affect our sales. Another risk of application to the FDA relates to the regulatory classification of new products or proposed new uses for existing products. In the filing of each application, we make a judgment about the appropriate form and content of the application. If the FDA disagrees with our judgment in any particular case and, for example, requires us to file a PMA application rather than allowing us to market for approved uses while we seek broader approvals or requires extensive additional clinical data, the time and expense required to obtain the required approval might be significantly increased or approval might not be granted. Furthermore, the timing of approvals in the U.S. and Europe is now dependent on the class of product. Any of our Class III devices (those categorized 18 Table of Contents as supporting or sustaining human life, are of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health, or which present a potential, unreasonable risk of illness or injury) and products of animal origin take an extensive amount of time to obtain approval in the European Union and all require clinical reports or clinical trial data which can be costly. Finally the FDA and AdvaMed (the principal United States trade association for the medical device industry) have agreed on a commitment letter regarding reauthorization of the Medical Device User Fee Authorization (“MDUFA”). This reauthorization is not expected to be finalized prior to October 2012 and the current proposal includes planned increases in fees over a five-year period. The amounts of such increases have not yet been published. Our manufacturing facilities must be in compliance with FDA Quality System Regulations (current Good Manufacturing Practices). In addition, approved products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records, reporting of adverse events and product recalls, documentation, and labeling and promotion of medical devices. For example, some of our orthobiologics products are subject to FDA and certain state regulations regarding human cells, tissues, and cellular or tissue-based products, which include requirements for establishment registration and listing, donor eligibility, current good tissue practices, labeling, adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Some states have their own tissue banking regulation. We are licensed or have permits as a tissue bank in California, Florida, New York and Maryland. In addition, tissue banks may undergo voluntary accreditation by the AATB. The AATB has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards. These and future regulatory requirements could significantly increase our production or purchasing costs and could even prevent us from making or obtaining our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we or a third-party manufacturer change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may require a new approval before that process may be used. Failure to develop our manufacturing capability could mean that, even if we were to develop promising new products, we might not be able to produce them profitably, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. All of our manufacturing facilities, both international and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us to issuance of FDA Form 483 observations, warning letters or enforcement action by the FDA or other agencies, including product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, restrictions on or injunctions against marketing our product or products based on our technology, denials of requests for exportation certificates to foreign governments, cessation of operations and civil and criminal penalties, any of which could materially affect our business. The FDA inspected our Plainsboro, New Jersey regenerative medicine manufacturing facility during the third quarter of 2011, at the conclusion of which it issued FDA Form 483 inspectional observations that described violations of quality system regulations. We subsequently received a warning letter from the FDA dated December 21, 2011 pertaining to that facility. We filed the warning letter as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 5, 2012. The effect of the warning letter is to require regular reports to the FDA of progress made on remediation of issues identified in the warning letter. Further, the FDA will not approve PMA’s or supplements manufactured in that facility until the warning letter has been remediated. We have incurred, and will incur, substantial expenses to remediate those observations and others issued in connection with other inspections at other facilities, and to prepare our manufacturing facilities for anticipated FDA inspections. The FDA has notified us that it will not grant requests for exportation certificates to foreign governments until the violations identified in the warning letter have been corrected. If such remediations cannot be completed in a timely manner we may not be able to produce certain products for a period of time or may not be able to sell such products in certain markets. There can be no assurance that such remediation and preparation 19 Table of Contents activities will address all such observations to the FDA’s satisfaction, or that the FDA will not impose additional regulatory sanctions with respect to such observations. We manufacture medical devices that are subject to various electrical safety standards. Many countries have adopted the recommendations of the International Electrotechnical Commission (“IEC”) for the safety and effectiveness of medical electrical equipment. The IEC is a non-profit, non-governmental international standards organization that prepares and publishes International Standards for all electrical, electronic and related technologies. Their updated standards are being implemented in some markets starting in July 2012 and will continue to be adopted over the following years worldwide. If our products are not modified in time and we do not comply with these standards, then our products could no longer be sold in the markets that have adopted the IEC updated standards. We are also subject to other regulatory requirements of countries outside the United States where we do business. For example, under the European Union Medical Device Directive, all medical devices must meet the Medical Device Directive standards in order to obtain CE Mark Certification prior to marketing in the EU. CE Mark Certification requires a comprehensive Quality System program, comprehensive technical and clinical documentation and data on the product, which a Notified Body in the EU reviews. In addition, we must be certified to the ISO 13485:2003 Quality System standards and maintain this certification in order to market our products in the EU, Canada, Japan, Latin America, countries in the Asia-Pacific region and most other countries outside the United States. The EU has revised the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EC as amended by 2007/47/EC). Compliance with these regulations requires extensive documentation, clinical reports for all products sold in the EU and other requirements. Requirements to meet these regulations can be costly and are mandatory to market our products in the EU. Many other countries have instituted new medical device regulations and/or revised current medical device regulations. These regulations often require extensive documentation, including clinical data and may require audits of our manufacturing facilities in order to gain approval to sell our products in that country. There are also associated fees with these new regulations. These regulations are required for all new products and re-registration of our medical devices, and may involve lengthy and expensive reviews. Our products that contain human derived tissue, including those containing demineralized bone matrices, are not medical devices in the EU as defined in the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EC). They are also not medicinal products as defined in Directive 2001/83/EC. Today, regulations, if applicable, differ from one EU member state to the next. Because of the absence of a harmonized regulatory framework and the proposed regulation for advanced therapy medicinal products in the EU, as well as for other countries, the approval process for human-derived cell or tissue based medical products may be extensive, lengthy, expensive, and unpredictable. Among others, some of our orthobiologics products are subject to EU member states’ regulations that govern the donation, procurement, testing, coding, traceability, processing, preservation, storage, and distribution of human tissues and cells and cellular or tissue-based products. These EU member states’ regulations include requirements for registration, listing, labeling, adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Some EU member states have their own tissue banking regulations. In addition, certain EU member states have instituted new requirements for additional testing that may be prohibitive to obtaining approval in those member states. Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation. Certain of our products, including our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products, biomaterial products for the spine, nerve and tendon repair products and certain other products, contain material derived from bovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from 20 Table of Contents animal sources, because of concern that materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with no known cure. Cases of BSE in cattle discovered in Canada and the United States have increased awareness of the issue in North America. We take care to provide that our products are safe and free of agents that can cause disease. In particular, we have qualified a source of collagen from a country outside the United States that is considered BSE-free. The World Health Organization classifies different types of cattle tissue for relative risk of BSE transmission. Deep flexor tendon is in the lowest-risk categories for BSE transmission (the same category as milk, for example), and is therefore considered to have a negligible risk of containing the agent that causes BSE (an improperly folded protein known as a prion). Nevertheless, products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, may become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern over the potential for the transmission of prions. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our current business or our ability to expand our business. Certain countries, such as Japan, China, Taiwan and Argentina, have issued regulations that require our collagen products be processed from bovine tendon sourced from countries where no cases of BSE have occurred, and the EU has requested that our dural replacement products and other products that are used in neurological tissue be sourced from bovine tendon sourced from a country where no cases of BSE have occurred. Currently, we purchase our tendon from the United States and New Zealand. We received approval in the EU, Japan, Taiwan, China and Argentina for the use of New Zealand-sourced tendon in the manufacturing of our products. If we cannot continue to use or qualify a source of tendon from New Zealand or another country that has never had a case of BSE, we will not be permitted to sell our collagen products in certain countries. Certain of our products are derived from human tissue and are subject to additional regulations and requirements. We manufacture medical devices derived from human tissue (demineralized bone tissue). The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. Examples include bone, ligament, skin and cornea. Some HCT/Ps also meet the definition of a biological product, medical device or drug regulated under the FD&C ACT. Section 361 of the PHSA authorizes the FDA to issue regulations to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable disease. HCT/Ps regulated as “361” HCT/Ps are subject to requirements relating to registering facilities and listing products with FDA, screening and testing for tissue donor eligibility, Good Tissue Practice, or GTP, when processing, storing, labeling, and distribution HCT/Ps, including required labeling information, stringent record keeping; and adverse event reporting. These biologic, device or drug HCT/Ps must comply both with the requirements exclusively applicable to 361 HCT/Ps and, in addition, with requirements applicable to biologics, devices or drugs, including premarket clearance or approval. The American Association of Tissue Banks (“AATB”) has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. In addition, some states have their own tissue banking regulations. We are licensed or have permits as a tissue bank in California, Florida, New York and Maryland. In addition, procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation is subject to the restrictions of the National Organ Transplant Act (“NOTA”), which prohibits the transfer of certain human organs, including skin and related tissue for valuable consideration, but permits the reasonable payment associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue and skin. We reimburse tissue banks for their expenses associated with the recovery, storage and transportation of donated human tissue that they provide to us for processing. We include in our pricing structure amounts paid to 21 Table of Contents tissue banks to reimburse them for their expenses associated with the recovery and transportation of the tissue, in addition to certain costs associated with processing, preservation, quality control and storage of the tissue, marketing and medical education expenses, and costs associated with development of tissue processing technologies. NOTA payment allowances may be interpreted to limit the amount of costs and expenses that we may recover in our pricing for our products, thereby reducing our future revenue and profitability. If we were to be found to have violated NOTA’s prohibition on the sale or transfer of human tissue for valuable consideration, we would potentially be subject to criminal enforcement sanctions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In the EU, regulations, if applicable, differ from one EU member state to the next. Because of the absence of a harmonized regulatory framework and the proposed regulation for advanced therapy medicinal products in the EU, as well as for other countries, the approval process for human derived cell or tissue based medical products may be extensive, lengthy, expensive, and unpredictable. Among others, some of our orthobiologics products are subject to EU member states’ regulations that govern the donation, procurement, testing, coding, traceability, processing, preservation, storage, and distribution of human tissues and cells and cellular or tissue-based products. These EU member states’ regulations include requirements for registration, listing, labeling, adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Some EU member states have their own tissue banking regulations. Lack of market acceptance for our products or market preference for technologies that compete with our products could reduce our revenues and profitability. We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products that we may develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. Certain of the medical indications that our devices can treat can also be treated by other medical devices or by medical practices that do not include a device. The medical community widely accepts many alternative treatments, and certain of these other treatments have a long history of use. For example, the use of autograft tissue is a well-established means for repairing the dermis, and it competes for acceptance in the market with our collagen-based wound care products. We cannot be certain that our devices and procedures will be able to replace those established treatments or that either physicians or the medical community in general will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. For example, market acceptance of our bone graft substitutes will depend on our ability to demonstrate that our bone graft substitutes and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing treatment options. Additionally, if there are negative events in the industry, whether real or perceived, there could be a negative impact on the industry as a whole. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of natural bone graft substitutes. In addition, our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop additional products. Even if we determine that a product candidate has medical benefits, the cost of commercializing that product candidate could be too high to justify development. Competitors could develop products that are more effective, achieve or maintain more favorable reimbursement status from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and third-party health insurance, cost less or are ready for commercial introduction before our products. If we are unable to develop additional commercially viable products, our future prospects could be adversely affected. Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to convince prospective collaborators and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies, to manufacture products in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs, and to supply and service sufficient quantities of our products directly or through our distribution alliances. In addition, unfavorable reimbursement methodologies, or adverse determinations of third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and third-party health insurers, against our products or third-party determinations that favor a competitor’s product over ours, could harm acceptance or continued use of our products. The industry is subject to rapid and continuous change arising from, 22 Table of Contents among other things, consolidation, technological improvements, the pressure on third-party payors and providers to reduce healthcare costs, and healthcare reform legislation. One or more of these factors may vary unpredictably, and such variations could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may not be able to adjust our contemplated plan of development to meet changing market demands. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, potentially enabling third parties to use our technology or very similar technology and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. To compete effectively, we depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. We own or have licensed patents that cover aspects of some of our product lines. Our patents, however, may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that our patents do not cover. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon unpatented trade secrets which we may be unable to protect. Our competitive position also depends upon unpatented trade secrets, which are difficult to protect. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, that our trade secrets will not be disclosed or that we can effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that, except in specified circumstances, all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of their relationship with us must be kept confidential. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others or that their rights are invalid or unenforceable. If we do not prevail in any litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we would be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license for the proprietary rights involved. Any required license may be unavailable to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive and allow our competitors to access the same technology we license. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design our products so as not to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be unable to sell some of our products, and this potential inability could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We may be involved in lawsuits relating to our intellectual property rights and promotional practices, which may be expensive. To protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate or defend legal proceedings, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings, against or by third parties. In addition, we may have to 23 Table of Contents institute proceedings regarding our competitors’ promotional practices or defend proceedings regarding our promotional practices. Litigation is costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of that litigation could affect our profitability. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. Moreover, in response to our claims against other parties, those parties could assert counterclaims against us. It may be difficult to replace some of our suppliers. Outside vendors, some of whom are sole-source suppliers, provide key components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that alternative sources for many of these components and raw materials are available, any interruption in supply of a limited or sole-source component or raw material could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new or alternative source of supply is identified and qualified. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a component or raw material, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could harm our ability to manufacture products. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired. We believe that these factors are most likely to affect the following products that we manufacture: • our collagen-based products, such as the INTEGRA® Dermal Regeneration Template and wound dressing products, the DuraGen® family of products, and our Absorbable Collagen Sponges; • our products made from silicone, such as our neurosurgical shunts and drainage systems and hemodynamic shunts; • products which use many different electronic parts from numerous suppliers, such as our intracranial monitors and catheters; and • products that use pyrolytic carbon (i.e., PyroCarbon) technology, such as certain of our reconstructive extremity orthopedic implants. In addition, some of our orthobiologics products rely on a small number of tissue banks accredited by the American Association of Tissue Banks, or AATB, for the supply of human tissue, a crucial component of our bone graft substitutes. We cannot be certain that these tissue banks will be able to fulfill our requirements or that we will be able to successfully negotiate with other accredited tissue facilities on satisfactory terms. If we were suddenly unable to purchase products from one or more of these companies, we would need a significant period of time to qualify a replacement, and the production of any affected products could be disrupted. While it is our policy to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time, we remain at risk that we will not be able to qualify new components or materials quickly enough to prevent a disruption if one or more of our suppliers ceases production of important components or materials. If any of our manufacturing facilities were damaged and/or our manufacturing or business processes interrupted, we could experience lost revenues and our business could be seriously harmed. Damage to our manufacturing, development or research facilities because of fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure, unauthorized entry or other events, such as a flu or other health epidemic, could cause us to cease development and manufacturing of some or all of our products. In particular, our San Diego and Irvine, California facilities are susceptible to earthquake damage, wildfire damage and power losses from electrical shortages as are other businesses in the Southern California area. Our Anasco, Puerto Rico plant, where we manufacture collagen, silicone and our private-label products, is vulnerable to hurricane, storm, earthquake 24 Table of Contents and wind damage. Although we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance coverage on these facilities, our insurance might not cover all losses under such circumstances, and we may not be able to renew or obtain such insurance in the future on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs. In addition, certain of our surgical instruments have some manufacturing processes performed by third parties in Pakistan, which is subject to political instability and unrest, and we purchase a much smaller amount of instruments directly from vendors there. Such instability could interrupt our ability to sell surgical instruments to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. While we have developed a relationship with an alternative provider of these services in another country, and continue to work to develop other providers in other countries, we cannot guarantee that we will be completely successful in achieving all of these relationships. Even if we are successful in establishing all of these alternative relationships, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so at the same level of costs or that we will be able to pass along additional costs to our customers. Further, we manufacture certain products in Europe and our European headquarters is located in France, which has experienced labor strikes. Thus far, strikes have not had a material impact on our business; however, if such strikes were to occur, there is no assurance that they would not disrupt our business, and any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. We implemented an enterprise business system to support certain of our transaction processing for accounting and financial reporting, supply chain and manufacturing. A third party hosts and maintains this system. Currently, we do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan for the Company’s infrastructure but we have adopted alternative solutions to mitigate business risk, including backup equipment, power and communications. We also implemented a comprehensive backup and recovery process for our key software applications. Our global production and distribution operations are dependent on the effective management of information flow between facilities. An interruption of the support provided by our enterprise business systems could have a material adverse effect on the business. We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to our international sales and operations, including fluctuations in exchange rates, local economic conditions and delays in collection of accounts receivable. We generate significant revenues outside the United States in multiple foreign currencies including euros, British pounds, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen and Australian dollars, and in U.S. dollar-denominated transactions conducted with customers who generate revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For those foreign customers who purchase our products in U.S. dollars, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which those customers do business may have a negative impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency. Since we have operations based outside the United States and we generate revenues and incur operating expenses in multiple foreign currencies including euros, British pounds, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen and Australian dollars, we experience currency exchange risk with respect to those foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses. Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. For a description of our use of derivative financial instruments, see Note 5, “Derivative Instruments.” We cannot predict the consolidated effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. 25 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to laws regarding sanctioned countries, entities and persons, customs, import-export, laws regarding transactions in foreign countries, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery and other laws regarding interactions with healthcare professionals. Among other things, these laws restrict, and in some cases prohibit, U.S. companies from directly or indirectly selling goods, technology or services to people or entities in certain countries. In addition, these laws require that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices in foreign countries. Local economic conditions, legal, regulatory or political considerations, disruptions from strikes, the effectiveness of our sales representatives and distributors, local competition and changes in local medical practice could also affect our sales to foreign markets. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the United States. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform by implementing a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices by a manufacturer, producer or importer of such devices in the United States starting after December 31, 2012. We are still evaluating the impact of this tax on our overall business. Other elements of this legislation, such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and other provisions, could meaningfully change the way health care is developed and delivered, and result in additional costs for us. The PPACA could reduce medical procedure volumes, impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products, and may have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. Further, the PPACA encourages hospitals and physicians to work collaboratively through shared savings programs, such as accountable care organizations, as well as other bundled payment initiatives, which may ultimately result in the reduction of medical device purchases and the consolidation of medical device suppliers used by hospitals. While passage of the PPACA may ultimately expand the pool of potential end-users of our products, the above-discussed changes could adversely affect our financial results and business. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. Changes in the healthcare industry may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, may reduce the size of the market for our products, or may eliminate a market, any of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies that could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: • as mentioned above, new legislation, which is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time, will result in major changes in the United States healthcare system that could have an adverse effect on our business, including a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices, which is scheduled to be implemented in 2013, and which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings; 26 Table of Contents • third-party payors of hospital services and hospital outpatient services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, annually revise their payment methodologies, which can result in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital charges for certain medical procedures or the elimination of reimbursement; • Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurer cutbacks could create downward price pressure on our products; • local Medicare coverage determinations will eliminate reimbursement for certain of our matrix wound dressing products in most regions, negatively affecting our market for these products, and future determinations could eliminate reimbursement for these products in other regions and could eliminate reimbursement for other products; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; • we are party to contracts with group purchasing organizations, which negotiate pricing for many member hospitals, that require us to discount our prices for certain of our products and limit our ability to raise prices for certain of our products, particularly surgical instruments; • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in domestic and international markets; • there are proposed and existing laws, regulations and industry policies in domestic and international markets regulating the sales and marketing practices and the pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry; • proposed laws or regulations will permit hospitals to provide financial incentives to doctors for reducing hospital costs (known as gainsharing), will award physician efficiency (known as physician profiling), and will encourage partnership with healthcare service and goods providers to reduce prices; • the growing prevalence of physician-owned distributorships catering to the spinal surgery market has reduced and may continue to reduce our ability to compete effectively for business from surgeons who own such distributorships; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products that could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. Both the pressures to reduce prices for our products in response to or despite these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our levels of revenues and profitability of sales. Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices and compete in the marketplace. There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products to healthcare professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state law equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse and analogous laws in foreign countries. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, in some instances civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements to comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that: • government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or 27 Table of Contents • government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation. Correspondingly, federal and state laws are also sometimes open to interpretation, and from time to time we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage if our interpretation differs from that of our competitors. AdvaMed, the principal United States trade association for the medical device industry, promulgates a model code of conduct that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. We have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the revised AdvaMed Code, and we provide routine training to our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. Pursuant to the revised AdvaMed Code, we have certified our adoption of the revised AdvaMed Code. Nevertheless, the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. For example, recent federal legislation and state legislation would require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to health care professionals. In addition, prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight, on the state and federal levels, over some major device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has limited the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as consultants. Various hospital organizations, medical societies and trade associations are establishing their own practices that may require detailed disclosures of relationships between healthcare professionals and medical device companies or ban or restrict certain marketing and sales practices such as gifts and business meals. Our private-label product lines depend significantly on key relationships with third parties, which we could be unable to establish and maintain. Our private-label business depends in part on our entering into and maintaining collaborative or alliance agreements with third parties concerning product marketing, as well as research and development programs. The third parties with whom we have entered into agreements might terminate these agreements for a variety of reasons, including developing other sources for the products that we supply. Termination of our most important relationships could adversely affect our expectations for the growth of private-label products. We may have significant product liability exposure and our insurance may not cover all potential claims. We are exposed to product liability and other claims in the event that our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm. We may not be able to obtain insurance for the potential liability on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs. Any potential product liability claims could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that then in effect. We are subject to requirements relating to hazardous materials which may impose significant compliance or other costs on us. Our research, development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials. In addition, we own and/or lease a number of facilities at which hazardous materials have been used in the past. Finally, we have acquired various companies that historically have used certain hazardous materials and that have owned and/or leased facilities at which hazardous materials have been used. For all of these reasons, we are subject to federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, treatment, remediation, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products (“Environmental Laws”). For example, our allograft bone tissue processing may generate waste materials, which in the United States, are classified as medical waste under Environmental Laws. Although we believe that our procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the Environmental Laws, the Environmental Laws may be amended in ways that increase our cost of compliance, perhaps materially. 28 Table of Contents Furthermore, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated, and there is also a risk that such contamination previously has occurred in connection with one of our facilities or in connection with one of the companies we have purchased. In the event of such an accident, or contamination we could be held liable for any damages that result and any related liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance and could exceed our resources. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. We may experience difficulties implementing our new global enterprise resource planning system We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”) to improve our operational efficiency. The ERP is designed to accurately maintain our financial reporting data and provide information to our management team important to the operation of the business. Our ERP has required, and will require, the investment of significant human and financial resources. The implementation of this new ERP system involves numerous risks, including disruption to our normal accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, inaccuracies in the conversion of electronic data, difficulties integrating the systems and processes, additional costs to continue to refine the system’s functionality, and disruption of our financial reporting process. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP without experiencing significant delays, increased costs, or other difficulties. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design or implementation of the ERP could adversely affect our ability to estimate supply chain needs, plan production requirements, process orders, ship product, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately forecast sales, or otherwise operate our business, all of which could negatively impact sales and profits. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we had no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were received not less than 180 days before the end of our 2011 fiscal year. 