RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating our company: OUR FUTURE GROWTH IS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDENT ON OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE THE SIZE AND RANGE OF APPLICATIONS FOR THE WORK NUMBER DATABASE. In order to successfully grow our business, we will have to make The Work Number and related business process outsourcing services increasingly attractive to a greater number of large organizations, their employees and verifiers. To achieve this goal, we believe that we will need to increase the number of employee records contained in The Work Number database, the amount and type of information contained in those records and the number of services that make use of those records. Our strategy for increasing the size of The Work Number database is based in part on strategic alliances with several providers of payroll and human resources outsourcing services. Our success will depend on the interest and commitment of these providers, which is entirely at their discretion. Some of these companies compete with us in certain service areas. Our strategy is also based in part on strategic acquisitions of businesses with databases of employee information. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of employer clients, if we cannot persuade them to include a greater amount of information in the employee records they provide us, or if we fail to develop additional applications to use this information, we may not achieve our growth objectives. OUR REVENUES FROM THE WORK NUMBER MAY FLUCTUATE IN RESPONSE TO CERTAIN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS SUCH AS INTEREST RATES AND EMPLOYMENT TRENDS. A significant portion of our revenues from The Work Number depends on residential mortgage-related and employment-related activity. We charge a fee for each request from lenders, pre-employment screeners, credit issuers, social services agencies, and other verifiers to verify employment and income information. Therefore, a decrease in activity within either of these segments would reduce our overall number of transactions per record in the database. This reduction in transactions, whether due to increases in interest rates or otherwise, could cause our revenues and profitability to be harmed. As an example, during a portion of fiscal year 2004, revenues for The Work Number services were adversely affected by a slowdown in the refinancing segment of the mortgage loan market. THE MARKET FOR THE WORK NUMBER DEPENDS IN PART ON THE REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED BY PURCHASERS IN THE SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET, AND OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY WOULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HARMED IF THESE REQUIREMENTS WERE RELAXED OR ELIMINATED. We believe that residential mortgage lenders are among the most active users of The Work Number. They utilize our services to verify employment, income and related information. The demand for this verification is driven in part by the requirements of the Federal National Mortgage Association, which is also known as Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, which is also known as Freddie Mac, the leading purchasers of residential mortgages in the United States. These agencies currently require specific information, including independent verification of employment and income data for the past two calendar years and a current payroll period in connection with certain mortgages they purchase. Accordingly, most lenders seek this information from mortgage applicants. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were to reduce the requirement for employment and income data or eliminate the requirement for independent verification thereof, our revenues and profitability would be significantly harmed. 11 AS WE PERFORM LARGE-SCALE PROCESSING OF VERIFICATIONS, THERE IS AN INCREASED RISK OF BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY OR INAPPROPRIATE USE OF DATA, WHICH MAY RESULT IN DAMAGE CLAIMS AND LOSS OF CUSTOMERS. As we seek to increase the use of The Work Number database by verifiers with frequent need of verification, we plan to use new methods of verification. These verifiers may be large mortgage lenders, pre-employment screeners, credit issuers, social service agencies, or other volume verifiers. These volume verifiers may obtain verifications in large volume or "batch" transactions using different means and requiring less proof of authorization than smaller verifiers. We expect that these volume verifiers will enter into contracts by which they agree that they will not use the income verification service unless they have been authorized by the employee to do so, or have legal authority to obtain the information. Many of the industries that utilize The Work Number for large scale processing of verifications have high turnover which may lead to the verifier failing to terminate access privileges to The Work Number in a timely manner. We have the ability to conduct regular audits of these volume verifiers to ensure compliance with documentation requirements. However, there is a risk that the verifier may not have the requisite authority, and that there may be claims for breach of privacy or confidentiality against us, claims for damages by employees and employers and resulting loss of employer relationships, which could significantly harm our results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN THE ACCURACY, PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY OF EMPLOYEE INFORMATION IN THE WORK NUMBER AND OUR OTHER DATABASES, WE MAY FACE SIGNIFICANT CLAIMS AND OUR REPUTATION COULD BE HARMED. The Work Number services depend on the accuracy of highly confidential employment and income history and other information which employers provide to us and which we convert for use in The Work Number and our other services. Although we have a number of protective measures in place, any inaccuracies in such information -- whether in the recording of such information, the unauthorized access to information, or otherwise -- or our inability to keep such information confidential, may give rise to claims against us and adversely affect market acceptance of The Work Number and our other services. Our financial condition, results of operations and reputation may be significantly harmed if any asserted claims were ultimately decided against us. IF A COURT OR REGULATOR CONCLUDES THAT THE FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT OR SIMILAR LAW APPLIES TO THE WORK NUMBER SERVICES, OUR BUSINESS AND PROFITABILITY COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HARMED. The Fair Credit Reporting Act, which we refer to as the FCRA, applies to "consumer reporting agencies" that engage in the practice of "assembling or evaluating" certain information relating to consumers. While we have historically taken the position that the FCRA does not apply to The Work Number services, the statutory language is subject to varying interpretation, and we are not aware of controlling legal authority to support our position. Recent public concerns relating to, among other things, data integrity, privacy and identity theft issues may increase the risk of action by consumers through litigation or by the Federal Trade Commission, or the "FTC", or state regulatory authority, which enforce the FCRA or similar laws. If a court, the FTC, or a state regulatory authority were to determine that the FCRA or other similar law does apply, we could be subject to claims for substantial damages, penalties and attorneys' fees and may experience negative publicity and reputational harm. Additionally, compliance with the FCRA would likely result in increased operational costs, divert resources from other business objectives, and result in some changes in the manner in which we deliver The Work Number services. For example, the FCRA requires that a consumer reporting agency identify the user and determine that there be a "permissible purpose," as defined by the FCRA, before disclosing a consumer report and furnish certain notices and information in writing to consumers as consumer reports are used. We may have some difficulty complying with certain provisions of the FCRA for certain types of transactions; The Work Number services are designed to operate via the web and interactive voice response, instead of paper. Due to the complexity of requirements and pending or possible future regulation, we cannot assure you that we would be successful in complying with the FCRA or similar law in all aspects of our operations. As a result, while it is difficult to estimate the ultimate impact on us if a court or regulator concludes that the FCRA or similar law applies to us, our business, operations, results of operations and financial condition could be significantly harmed. 12 CHANGES IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR CHANGES TO UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION LAWS COULD LIMIT UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION CLAIMS, CAUSING EMPLOYERS TO QUESTION THE VALUE OF UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION MANAGEMENT AND LIMITING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TAX PLANNING. A difficult economic environment and consequent staff reductions could result in an increase in unemployment compensation claims. Conversely, as economic conditions improve, and claims decrease, employers may question the value of our unemployment compensation management and unemployment compensation tax planning services. As a result of the difficult economic environment in recent years, states with significant budget challenges may take legislative or regulatory steps to reduce unemployment benefits or to close tax-planning opportunities, which could reduce the opportunities for service to employers. In such situations, our revenues could be harmed. For example, as a result of uncertain economic conditions, we experienced lower revenue levels in our unemployment cost management services business during fiscal year 2004. The UC eXpress revenue stream is characterized by annual retainers that provide a revenue base with upside potential through contingency billings for tax consulting or for additional billings if claims processed, or if the performance measures, exceed contractually set levels. For example, during fiscal year 2004, uncertain economic conditions contributed to a reduction in activity in our unemployment tax consulting business and current claims activity was less than expected. If new statutes or regulations were adopted that restricted our business or the ability of others to provide us with payroll and human resources information, or existing statutes or regulations were deemed to apply to us or such third parties, we may be required to change our activities and revise or eliminate our services, which could significantly harm our revenues and operations. OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE WILL BE DEPENDENT ON SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION OF ACQUISITIONS. We expect a portion of our growth to come from business acquisitions which we recently consummated or which we may consummate in the future. Such acquisitions involve certain operational, legal and financial risks. Operational risks include the possibility that an acquisition does not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by our management, while we continue to incur operating expenses to provide the services formerly provided by the acquired company. Legal risks involve contract and regulatory issues. For example, some employers may not consent to the transfer of ownership of their contracts by which the services are provided, and some states' unemployment compensation commissions may require changes to powers of attorney by which the employer authorizes processing of claims. In the event of any loss of employer- customers or our inability to appear before state unemployment commissions, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Financial risks involve the incurrence of indebtedness as a result of the acquisitions and the consequent need to service that indebtedness. In addition, in the event we were to issue stock in connection with any acquisitions, we would dilute the voting power and could dilute the economic interests of existing shareholders. In carrying out our acquisition strategy, we attempt to minimize the risk of unexpected liabilities and contingencies associated with acquired businesses through planning, investigation and negotiation, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing additional acquisitions on favorable terms. PRIVACY LEGISLATION OR INTERPRETATIONS OF EXISTING LAWS COULD RESTRICT OUR BUSINESS. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States. Some commentators, privacy advocates and government bodies have recommended limitations on, or taken actions to limit, the use of personal information by those collecting this information. For example, in 1999, Congress enacted the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which contains provisions protecting the privacy of consumer non-public personal information collected by financial institutions. Additionally, federal privacy regulations relating to the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information were recently issued by the Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or "HIPAA". Additional regulations under HIPAA became effective April 15, 2005. These privacy regulations could impose additional costs and could limit our use and disclosure of such information. Some states have also enacted consumer and health information privacy protection laws. 13 If new statutes or regulations were adopted that restricted our business, or existing statutes or regulations were deemed to apply to us, we may be required to change our activities and revise or eliminate our services, which could significantly harm our revenues and operations. CHANGES IN TAX LAWS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Certain of our revenues and profits from continuing operations were derived from our tax services businesses. At any time, the tax laws or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations could adversely affect us. For example, on October 22, 2004, the President signed the "American Jobs Creation Act of 2004." While we do not believe this Act contains any provisions that are likely to have an adverse effect on our business, we are currently evaluating its impact. On October 4, 2004, the President signed the "Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004," which extended the provisions of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit and the Welfare to Work Tax Credit available to employers through December 31, 2005, after which date, without further Congressional action, these programs would again lapse and no longer be available to our clients. This law additionally made the extension retroactive to January 1, 2004, allowing employers with qualified employees who were hired during the hiatus period that followed the former expiration of the programs on December 31, 2003 to access these tax credits for 2004. Our tax credit and incentive services business assists employers in identifying employment-related, location-based and other tax incentive programs available to them under both federal and state tax legislation. Although these programs have been historically renewed retroactively by Congress following their lapsing in accordance with their terms, Congress may not similarly renew such programs in the future. Moreover, if programs lapse, any future renewals may not be retroactive, which means that the value of such programs to our clients could be reduced to such an extent that they no longer desire our tax credit and incentive services. Any non-renewal of these tax credit programs, the renewal of such programs without retroactive effect, or other adverse change in tax legislation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. IF THE SUTA DUMPING PREVENTION ACT OF 2004 APPLIES TO OUR TAX PLANNING SERVICES, OUR BUSINESS AND REVENUES COULD BE HARMED. On August 9, 2004 the President signed the "SUTA Dumping Prevention Act of 2004." In the past, some employers found ways to manipulate state experience rating systems so that these employers paid lower state employment compensation taxes than their unemployment experience would otherwise allow. This practice is referred to as "SUTA dumping." "SUTA" refers to state unemployment tax acts, but has also been referred to as "state unemployment tax avoidance." Most frequently these avoidance tactics involved mergers, acquisitions or corporate restructurings, the legality of which depended upon state laws. The SUTA Dumping Prevention Act of 2004 established a nationwide minimum standard to curb SUTA dumping. The law also established penalties for employers and their advisors who knowingly violate those state law provisions. Our unemployment cost management services include advising clients as to unemployment compensation taxes. We fully support the measures enacted in the SUTA dumping legislation, and we believe the advice we have given since the enactment of this legislation does not include advice to clients to take any action which would be prohibited under the legislation. However, there can be no assurance that we have not and will not provide advice to clients or that our clients have not taken or will not take action which runs afoul of the SUTA Dumping Prevention Act of 2004. We could be subject to "meaningful civil and criminal penalties," as the statute provides, for violations of the law. We could also be subject to negative publicity, harm to our reputation, and strained relationships with state agencies which are important to our business if we were accused of advising clients to take actions in violation of the SUTA dumping guidelines, or if clients took such actions at a time when we were providing advice on unemployment compensation taxes. The new law has not been interpreted or applied, and, as a consequence, it is difficult to predict the impact of the new law on our tax planning services. 14 INTERRUPTIONS TO OUR COMPUTER NETWORK OR TELEPHONE OPERATIONS COULD SIGNIFICANTLY HARM OUR REVENUES AND INDUSTRY REPUTATION. Significant portions of our operations depend on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our data processing centers against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other events. We have data processing centers located in St. Louis, Missouri; Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio; and Plano, Texas, which areas have historically been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as floods, earthquakes and tornadoes. We back up software and related data files regularly and store the back-up files off-site at a nearby secure facility. A portion of the data is also replicated to an off-site storage area network for high availability. We cannot assure you that these measures will eliminate the risk of extended interruption of our operations. We also rely on local and long- distance telephone companies to provide dial-up access, Web and corporate intranet access to our services. We have not established an alternative disaster recovery facility, which would serve to protect us from losses of employee record information due to damage to our data storage facilities. Any damage or failure that interrupts our operations or destroys some or all of our database of employee records could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and industry reputation. OUR QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY. Our revenues, margins and results from operations have fluctuated in the past, and may continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors. For The Work Number, these factors include residential mortgage activity and interest rate levels. Revenues generated from our W-2 eXpress service are affected by seasonality, as revenues are primarily earned in our fourth fiscal quarter. The non-renewal of certain tax credit programs, such as WOTC or WtW, the renewal of such programs without retroactive effect, or other adverse changes in tax legislation would cause fluctuations in our tax credit and incentive services business. For all of our service offerings, other factors that can cause our operating results to fluctuate include: - new product introductions or announcements by us or our competitors; - market acceptance of new services; - pricing pressure; - the hiring and training of additional staff; - the length of the sales cycle; and - general economic conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain our level of total revenue or our historical rate of revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that, in some future quarters, our operating results will fall below our targets and the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could decline significantly. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTRODUCE NEW BUSINESS PROCESS OUTSOURCING SERVICES AND ENHANCED FUNCTIONALITY TO KEEP PACE WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES THAT CHARACTERIZE OUR MARKETS, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HARMED. The business process outsourcing industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, and our future success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with technological developments. In particular, the market for self-service applications through the Web and corporate intranets using browser software is rapidly evolving. To remain competitive, we must continually change and improve our services in response to changes in operating systems, application software, computer and telephony hardware, communications, database and networking systems, programming tools and computer language technology. Additionally, we must also 15 introduce new business process outsourcing services and add functionality to existing services in response to changing market conditions and client demand. The development of new, technologically advanced services is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. If we are unable, for technical or other reasons, to develop and market new business process outsourcing services or enhancements to existing services in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if new business process outsourcing services do not achieve market acceptance, we could lose revenues and our competitive position could suffer. WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE, WHICH EXPOSES US TO DISRUPTION IF THOSE PRODUCTS ARE NO LONGER SUPPORTED OR DEVELOP DEFECTS. Our services involve integration with both operating systems and products developed by others. If any third-party software or hardware, such as Microsoft Windows server products, Microsoft development tools, Oracle database software, Sun Solaris, Informix database software, Intel Media processing hardware or Sybase Power Builder development tools, become unavailable for any reason, fail to integrate with our products or fail to be supported by their respective vendors or to operate properly, we would have to redesign our products. We cannot assure you that we could accomplish any redesign in a cost-effective or timely manner. Further, if third-parties release new versions of these systems or products before we develop products compatible with such new releases, demand for our services and products might decline, thereby harming our revenues and profitability. We believe that if any supplier agreement expires or is canceled or otherwise terminated, or if a third-party supplier refuses to sell to us, we could locate any number of different suppliers. However, it would require a significant amount of time to integrate the relevant technology from the new supplier, which would result in a significant delay in our ability to offer the particular enhancement. We could also experience difficulties integrating the new supplier's technology with our services. We cannot assure you we could accomplish any such integration in a cost-effective manner. Significant delays in the offering of service enhancements due to integration of technology from new suppliers could significantly harm our revenues and profitability. OUR SERVICES MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS OR LACK ADEQUATE SECURITY WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS, DIVERT OUR ATTENTION FROM PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS AND RESULT IN A LOSS OF CUSTOMERS. As a result of their complexity, business process outsourcing services and hardware and software products may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. We cannot assure you that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not occur in services and systems after implementation. The occurrence of such errors could result in potential security issues or loss or delay in market acceptance of our services, which could significantly harm our revenues and our reputation. Web or other users could access without authorization or otherwise disrupt our Web and corporate intranet services. Such unauthorized access and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer systems of our clients, which could result in significant liability to us, could cause the loss of existing clients and could discourage potential new clients. THE LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends in large part upon the retention of key management, especially William W. Canfield, the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who has served in that capacity for more than 15 years. We would likely undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of our key management, including Mr. Canfield, which would materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. 16 BECAUSE OF INTENSE COMPETITION FOR TRAINED PERSONNEL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECRUIT OR RETAIN NECESSARY PERSONNEL ON A COST-EFFECTIVE BASIS. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly-skilled employees. Competition for highly-skilled employees in our industry is intense. In addition, employees may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. Our failure to attract and retain these qualified employees could significantly harm our ability to develop new services and maintain customer relationships. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We may be subject to such claims as we seek to retain or hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. CLAIMS THAT WE INFRINGE THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES OR RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR SERVICES. Other parties have asserted in the past, and may assert in the future, patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. For example, we have entered into a license to use various interactive voice response and computer telephony technologies that required us to make an initial payment and to pay future royalties. Further, we have not conducted a search to determine whether the technology we have in our services infringes or misappropriates intellectual property held by other third-parties. We cannot provide assurance that others will not claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. Any claims asserting that our services infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third-parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our results of operations. Any claims, with or without merit, could: - be time-consuming; - result in costly litigation; - divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel; - require us to develop alternative technology, thereby resulting in delays and the loss or deferral of revenues; - require us to cease marketing business process outsourcing services containing the infringing intellectual property; - require us to pay substantial damage awards; - damage our reputation; or - require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our revenues, results of operations and competitive position would be harmed. OUR FAILURE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY SIGNIFICANTLY HARM OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND REPUTATION. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our ability to protect and maintain our proprietary rights to our intellectual property. We currently rely on a combination of trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. 17 We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our officers, employees and consultants. We also generally limit access to and distribution of our source code, access to our databases and the disclosure and use of our other proprietary information. However, these measures provide only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may not have procured signed agreements containing adequate protective provisions in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. Further, we have not included copyright notices on all of our copyrightable intellectual property. Efforts to address any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar services, potentially resulting in the loss of one or more competitive advantages and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws afford us only limited protection. Others may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or to deter others from developing similar technologies. Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our products and other proprietary rights is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could significantly harm our results of operations and reputation. WE FACE COMPETITION FROM A BROAD RANGE OF COMPANIES. The markets for our services are extremely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We consider the primary competitor to The Work Number to be large employers and outsourcers who manage employment verification through a call center or through internal automated systems. We believe the primary competitors to other Work Number services are ADP, Paychex, and Ceridian. We consider the primary competitor to our tax management services to be ADP, as well as a few smaller firms that offer similar services. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could significantly harm our results of operations. Additionally, we may be required to increase spending in response to competition in order to pursue new market opportunities or to invest in research and development efforts, and, as a result, our operating results in the future may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not significantly harm our results of operations. PROVISIONS OF OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS AND MISSOURI LAW MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE US, DESPITE THE POSSIBLE BENEFITS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Missouri law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions: - provide for a classified Board of Directors; - limit the right of shareholders to remove directors or change the size of the Board of Directors; - limit the right of shareholders to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors; - limit the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders or propose other actions; - require unanimity for shareholders to act by written consent, in accordance with Missouri law; - require a higher percentage of shareholders than would otherwise be required by Missouri law to amend, alter, change or repeal certain provisions of our articles of incorporation; - provide that the bylaws may be amended only by the majority vote of the Board of Directors and shareholders will not be able to amend the bylaws without first amending the articles of incorporation; 18 - authorize the issuance of preferred stock with any voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such rights as may be specified by our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval; and - restrict specified types of "business combinations" and "control share acquisitions," as well as regulate some tender offers. These provisions may: - have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control despite possible benefits to our shareholders; - discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock; and - harm the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our shareholders. OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND COULD DROP UNEXPECTEDLY. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. The price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations due to factors including: - actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; - announcements of technological innovations or new services or contracts by us or our competitors; - developments with respect to patents, copyrights or proprietary rights; - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; - concerns regarding the security of our database; - conditions and trends in outsourcing of tax management, human resources and payroll services; and - general economic and market conditions. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Often these fluctuations have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performances of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Declines in the market price of our common stock could also harm employee morale and retention, our access to capital and other aspects of our business. BECAUSE OUR SHARE PRICE IS VOLATILE, WE MAY BE THE TARGET OF SECURITIES LITIGATION, WHICH IS COSTLY AND TIME-CONSUMING TO DEFEND. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. For example, we recently settled class action litigation, as discussed in "Item 7 -- Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Other Matters" below. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would significantly harm our profitability and reputation. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 19 