Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some of the factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect our company. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced net losses of $7,155,000 and $10,370,000 for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $28,232,000. Although management continues to address many of the legacy issues and expenses that have historically burdened our financial performance, we still face significant challenges in order to reach profitability, particularly in light of the challenging economic environment that we now face. In order for us to attain profitability and growth, we will need to successfully address these challenges, including executing our production, marketing and sales plans for our new Array™ product line and improving our supply chain performance. We cannot estimate when or if we will achieve profitability in the future, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. Our development and growth have caused significant strain on our financial resources resulting in losses, deficits and negative operating cash flows. We plan on continuing to make significant expenditures in administration, sales, marketing and product development to support our growth strategy, which we expect will result in operating losses 10 for 2010 and potentially future periods. These expenditures may include costs associated with hiring additional personnel, expanding our sales and marketing activities, continuing our research and development relating to new products and enhancing existing products and manufacturing activities for our existing and new products, including our new Array™ product line. We expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we spend resources on growing our business, and if our revenue does not correspondingly increase, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. The amount of these expenditures is difficult to forecast accurately and cost overruns may occur. We cannot be certain of the timing and extent of revenue receipts and expense disbursements. To become profitable, we will have to generate sufficient revenue while controlling our costs and expenses. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable, our ability to achieve our business objectives may be negatively impacted and the market price of our common stock could decline. The current downturn in economic and market conditions and construction trends could materially and adversely affect our business. We may continue to be adversely impacted by downturns in general economic and market conditions, both nationally and internationally. The markets in which we sell our lighting products have been negatively impacted by the downturn in general economic and market conditions. Economic downturns generally, or in our markets specifically, particularly those affecting new building construction and renovation or that cause end-users to reduce or delay their purchases of lighting products, signs or displays, would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In most areas, sales of new and existing homes have slowed and there has been a continued downturn in the housing market, as well as adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence and interest rates, in addition to an oversupply of commercial and residential buildings for sale. Sales of our legacy commercial lighting products depend significantly upon the level of new building construction and renovation, which are affected by housing market trends, interest rates and the weather. Sales of our pool and spa lighting products depend substantially upon the level of new pool construction, which is also affected by housing market and construction trends. We expect sales of our Array products to be affected by energy costs, the extent of utility and government rebates for energy conservation, levels of cost savings initiatives and “green” environmental trends. Our future results of operations may experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders. In addition, the persistence of the economic downturn may also cause reductions or elimination of utility and government energy efficiency incentive programs used to partially offset the costs of some of our products. Continued economic downturn coupled with a decline in our revenue could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, support our working capital requirements and growth objectives, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may reorganize our company, operations and product offerings which may cause us to incur greater losses and create disruptions to our business. We derive most of our revenue from sales of products other than Array. Although most of these products are well established in the marketplace and we have sold them for many years, we have a history of operating losses in these businesses. Furthermore, current economic conditions have adversely affected demand for these products. We routinely review our operations for additional opportunities to reduce costs. Our analysis may lead to the determination to close, eliminate, rationalize or reduce operations and divisions and/or alter our sales, manufacturing and/or distribution structure. Should we decide to pursue any such changes, we may incur additional charges and losses in connections with such changes in the future, and such charges and losses may be material. In addition, we could experience difficulties, disruptions or delays in the implementation of any such changes and there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement these programs successfully or on a timely basis. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and achieve long-term viability is dependent upon successfully managing our costs and expenses and increasing revenue. We face significant challenges in order to achieve profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity or achieve long-term viability. Our ability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business is dependent upon our ability to establish profitable operations or raise capital, as needed, through public or private debt or equity financing, or other sources of financing to fund operations. The disruption of the capital markets and the continued decline in economic conditions could negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability or raise additional capital when needed and, accordingly, we are pursuing a streamlined operating plan. We believe that our existing cash balance, combined with working capital, will be sufficient to enable us to meet our 11 planned expenditures under our streamlined operating plan through the next twelve months. Our streamlined operating plan could include, among other cost cutting measures, reductions in marketing and capital expenditures, delaying new hires and being more selective in inventory purchases. However, in order to optimize the growth of our business, we may need to seek to raise additional debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify a source of such financing, or that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, should the opportunity to raise additional capital arise, any additional debt or equity financing could result in significant dilution of the existing holders of common stock. If demand for our new Array brand of LED light bulbs in the general lighting market fails to emerge or we fail in the execution of the manufacture or distribution of our Array product line, we may not be able to carry out our long-term business strategy. Our long-term business strategy includes the penetration of the general lighting market with our new Array brand of white light LED light bulbs. We have devoted, and intend to continue to devote, substantial resources to the development of our Array product line and technologies suitable for use in the general lighting market. If demand for these products and technologies in the general lighting market does not develop and we do not receive sufficient revenue to offset these expenditures, our profitability would be harmed and our ability to carry out our long-term business strategy would be adversely affected. We outsource all of the production of our new Array brand of products. We depend on two contract manufacturers to produce our Array product line at plants located in Mexico and Minnesota. Maintaining an adequate supply to meet demand for our Array products depends on our ability to execute on our production plan. We began producing and shipping small quantities of our Array products in the fourth quarter of 2008. In anticipation of increasing sales, we increased production of our Array products significantly in the fourth quarter of 2009. We cannot be sure that we will meet our production schedule or that sales will meet our expectations. Any significant problems in the production process, including the operations of our contractors’ manufacturing facilities, could result in cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the process of being manufactured, or unplanned increases in production costs, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, there are inherent uncertainties associated with forecasting future demand for our new Array brand of products, and as a consequence, we may have inadequate capacity to meet actual demand. Alternatively, we may have an excess of available capacity, which could lead to excess capacity charges, resulting in an increase in our cost of sales. If our advanced lighting systems do not gain wider market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability may be limited. We derive sales and income primarily from sales of our LED and fiber optic lighting products. We face competition from both traditional lighting technologies, such as incandescent, florescent and neon lighting, and from competitors engaged in providing LED and fiber optic lighting products. Traditional lighting technologies have the advantage of a long history of market acceptance and familiarity as compared to our advanced lighting systems. Potential customers for our advanced lighting systems may be reluctant to adopt these as alternatives to traditional lighting technologies because of their higher initial cost to achieve comparable light output, although our advanced lighting systems tend to be more energy efficient and require less maintenance. Our continued success will depend upon both the increased acceptance of our advanced lighting systems as an alternative to traditional lighting technologies and the development of higher lumen producing products to meet traditional lighting applications. Our future results are dependent upon sales growth of our advanced lighting systems in the commercial/architectural, retail, hospitality, entertainment and consumer lighting markets. As part of our sales and marketing strategy, we actively seek to educate our target markets as to the advantages of our advanced lighting systems. We believe that achievement of this objective is critical to our future success. Our advanced lighting systems may not continue to gain market share within the overall lighting market or competitors may introduce better lighting technologies, displacing LED and fiber optic lighting products in the market. If acceptance of our advanced lighting systems in general does not continue to grow, then opportunities to increase our revenue and operate profitably may be limited. Substantial demand may not develop for the use of LED lighting in the general lighting market. Obstacles to adoption of LED lighting in the general lighting market include the high initial cost of high brightness white LEDs and the need for further advances in brightness, color characteristics, efficiency and the predicted life of the LEDs before they require replacement. Failure of LED manufacturers to introduce on a timely basis high brightness white light LEDs having satisfactory performance, quality and cost characteristics could delay the further development and enhancement of, or reduce the attractiveness to potential customers of, our Array™ product line. 12 If we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we will need to keep pace with rapid changes in LED and fiber optic lighting technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. Development of new products incorporating advanced technology is a complex process subject to numerous uncertainties. We have in the past experienced, and could in the future experience, delays in introduction of new products. If effective new sources of light other than LED and fiber optic devices are discovered, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends, respond on a timely basis with our own development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our revenue to attain, or sustain, profitability. If we are not able to compete effectively against companies with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. The lighting industry is highly competitive. In the high performance lighting markets in which we sell our advanced lighting systems, our products compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. Additionally, in the advanced lighting markets in which we have primarily competed to date, competition has largely been fragmented among a number of small manufacturers of LED products. However, some of our competitors, particularly those that offer traditional lighting products, are larger companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing than we have. Moreover, in the white light market, particularly as we introduce white light products for use in general lighting applications, such as retrofit lamps for standard fixtures, we expect to encounter competition from an even greater number of companies. Our competitors are expected to include the large, established companies in the general lighting industry, such as General Electric, Osram Sylvania and Royal Philips Electronics. We believe each of these competitors has undertaken initiatives to develop white light LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED lighting products than we do. We may also face competition from traditional lighting fixture companies, such as Acuity Brands Lighting, Cooper Lighting, Hubbell Lighting, Lithonia Lighting and Royal Philips Electronics. The relatively low barriers to entry into the lighting industry and the limited proprietary nature of many lighting products also permit new competitors to enter the industry easily. In each of our markets, we also anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems that might not infringe on our patents. Our competitors’ lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. Additionally, to the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our revenue and profitability, and our future prospects for success, may be harmed. If we are unable to obtain and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. We consider our technology and processes proprietary. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors may utilize our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. 13 As of March 17, 2010, we have filed 88 patent applications. From these applications, 43 patents have been issued, 37 are currently pending approval and 8 are no longer active. Because our patent position involves complex legal, scientific, and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Our issued patents may be invalidated or their enforceability challenged, they may be designed around, and they may not provide us with competitive advantages against others with similar products and technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or technology or duplicate or design around any technologies that we have developed. We may receive notices that claim we have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. Even if these claims are not valid, they could subject us to significant costs. We have engaged in litigation and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, both in legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If critical components that we currently purchase from a small number of third-party suppliers become unavailable, or third-party manufacturers otherwise experience delays, we may incur delays in shipment, which would damage our business. We depend on a small number of third party suppliers for a significant portion of the component parts incorporated into our products and, with respect to our Array products, we depend on a single supplier for the custom LED component. We purchase these component parts from third-party suppliers that serve the advanced lighting systems market and we believe that alternative sources of supply are readily available for most component parts. However, consolidation in the LED lighting industry could result in one or more current suppliers being acquired by a competitor, rendering us unable to continue purchasing necessary amounts of key components at competitive prices. In addition, for certain of our customized components, arrangements for additional or replacement suppliers will take time and result in delays. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components, or our inability to obtain components from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In an effort to reduce manufacturing costs, we have outsourced the production of certain parts and components as well as finished goods in our LED and fiber optic lighting product lines to a number of suppliers. We outsource all of the production for our Array™ brand of products to two third party manufacturers. There is no production overlap between these manufacturers. Except for one type of Array product, all of our Array products are produced by a single third party manufacturer located in Mexico. While we believe alternative manufacturers for these products are available, we have selected these particular manufacturers based on their ability to consistently produce these products per our specifications ensuring the best quality product at the most cost effective price. We depend on our third party manufacturers to satisfy performance and quality specifications and to dedicate sufficient production capacity within scheduled delivery times. Historically, we have chosen not to contract with any of our third party manufacturers; instead, we purchase products and components pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. This means we are vulnerable to unanticipated price increases and product shortages. Accordingly, the loss of all or one of these manufacturers or delays in obtaining shipments could have a material adverse effect on our operations until such time as an alternative manufacturer could be found. We may be subject to various import duties applicable to materials manufactured in foreign countries and, in addition, may be affected by various other import and export restrictions, as well as other considerations or developments impacting upon international trade, including economic or political instability, shipping delays and product quotas. These international trade factors will, under certain circumstances, have an impact both on the cost of components (which will, in turn, have an impact on the cost to us of the manufactured product) and the wholesale and retail prices of our products. 14 If the companies to which we outsource the manufacture of our products fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, our revenue and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. We outsource a significant portion of the manufacture and assembly of our products, including all of the production of our new Array™ brand of products. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in various locations throughout the world, primarily in the U.S., China, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Taiwan. These manufacturers supply raw materials (in some cases we procure and provide our contract manufacturers with certain components, such as LEDs) and provide necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. Historically, we have not entered into contracts with these manufacturers. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us without adequate notice, or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture and ship our lighting products until replacement manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process. If it became necessary to do so, we may not be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain additional risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • risk of loss of inventory while in transit from China, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Taiwan; and • risks associated with international commerce, particularly with China, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Taiwan, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property and political and economic instability. Any interruption in our ability to manufacture and distribute products could result in delays in shipment, lost sales, reductions in revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. We depend on distributors and independent sales representatives for a substantial portion of our revenue and sales, and the failure to manage successfully our relationships with these third parties, or the termination of these relationships, could cause our revenue to decline and harm our business. We rely significantly on indirect sales channels to market and sell our products. Most of our products are sold through independent distributors and agents. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to end-users. Our current agreements with indirect sales channels are non-exclusive with regard to lighting products in general, but exclusive with respect to LED lighting and fiber optic products. We anticipate that any such agreements we enter into in the future will be on similar terms. Furthermore, our agreements are generally short-term, and can be cancelled by these sales channels without significant financial consequence. We cannot control how these sales channels perform and cannot be certain that we or end-users will be satisfied by their performance. If these distributors and agents significantly change their terms with us, or change their historical pattern of ordering products from us, there could be a significant impact on our revenue and profits. Quarterly operating results fluctuate as a result of many factors. Most of our expenses are fixed in nature and cannot be significantly reduced in the short-term if we experience an unexpected delay or decrease in our anticipated revenue in any quarter. In addition, forecasting our revenue is difficult, as we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our LED lighting and fiber optic products; instead, our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and we generally permit orders to be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty. If we, our manufacturers’ representatives, distributors or OEM customers fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, or fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, we might not meet our forecasts, or those of investors or analysts. In addition, we forecast our revenue and plan our production and inventory levels based upon our manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and OEM customers’ demand forecasts, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. As a result, we may continue to experience losses on a quarterly or annual basis, which could cause a reduction in cash flows and the market price of our common stock to decline. 15 Quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Factors that could affect revenue and operating results include, among others, the following: • competitive factors, such as competitive pricing pressure and the potential introduction of new products by competitors; • manufacturing factors, including constraints in our manufacturing and assembly operations and shortages or increases in the prices of raw materials and components; • sales and distribution factors, such as changes in product mix or distribution channels resulting in lower margins, increases in sales and marketing expenses, the loss of a significant distributor or sales representative and seasonality of sales; • product development and introduction problems, such as increased research, development and marketing expenses associated with new product introductions, delays in the introduction of new products and technologies, and adverse effects on sales of existing products; • developments in trade secrets, patent or other proprietary rights by us or our competitors; • the ability to control costs, including levels of expenses relative to revenue levels; • risk of product returns and exchanges, such as component problems, that could increase warranty reserves and manufacturing costs; • the ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products and product enhancements in a timely manner; • the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders; • the risk of loss of a significant customer; • changes in our pricing policies and the pricing policies of suppliers and competitors, pricing concessions on volume sales, as well as increased price competition in general; • success in expanding and implementing our sales and marketing programs; • relatively small level of backlog at any given time; • the mix of sales among our products; • deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; • risks and uncertainties associated with international business; • expenses that may be incurred in litigation; • personnel changes; • currency fluctuations and our ability to get currency out of certain foreign countries; and • general economic and market conditions, including housing market trends, interest rates, the weather, terrorist activities and the prospect or actuality of war. In addition, sales in any quarter may consist of a relatively small number of large customer orders. As a result, the timing of a small number of orders may impact quarter-to-quarter results. The loss of, or a substantial reduction in, orders from any significant customer could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Quarterly operating results are also substantially affected by the market’s acceptance of our products and the level and timing of orders received. Significant portions of our expenses are relatively fixed in advance based upon forecasts of future sales. If sales fall below expectations in any given quarter, operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, certain product development and marketing expenditures may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are made well in advance of potential resulting revenue. Due to all of the factors listed above and other risks discussed herein, future operating results could be below the expectations of investors or analysts. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As a result of these quarterly variations, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. 16 We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business. We have historically sought to grow through strategic acquisitions in order to complement and expand our business. On April 30, 2008, we acquired Lumificient Corporation and on September 28, 2007, we acquired Advanced Lighting Systems, Inc. In order to reduce operating expenses and increase synergies across our business lines, in the first quarter of 2009, we integrated the operations of Advanced Lighting Systems with other company operations in Orlando, Florida. The success of any acquisition will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable candidates; • competition from other companies for the purchase of available candidates; • our ability to value those candidates accurately and negotiate favorable terms for those acquisitions; • the availability of funds to finance acquisitions; • the ability to establish new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business; • the ability to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products or services; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the acquired businesses. We may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses and completing acquisitions in the future. We also may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete acquisitions. Acquired businesses may fail to meet our performance expectations. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition as rapidly as expected, or at all, investors or analysts may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to successfully integrate businesses we acquire could have adverse consequences on our business. Acquisitions result in greater administrative burdens and operating costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or integrate acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of integrating acquired businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that the companies have historically provided; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; • the need to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to deal with any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we may expect from such acquisitions and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results and financial condition. Our products could contain defects or they may be installed or operated incorrectly, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. Despite testing by us, errors have been found and may be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenue, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our 17 lighting products and would likely harm our business. Some of our products use line voltages (such as 120 or 240 AC), or are designed for installation in environments such as swimming pools and spas, which involve enhanced risk of electrical shock, injury or death in the event of a short circuit or other malfunction. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our lighting products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to end-users or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers and end-users could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed. Our success depends on our continued ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. To a significant extent, our success will depend on our senior management team. In particular, the loss of the services of Michael A. Bauer, our president and chief executive officer, would harm our business. Competition for these individuals is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In particular, we may encounter difficulties in recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, which could harm our ability to develop new products and adversely impact our relationships with existing and future customers. The inability to attract and retain necessary technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel could harm our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products and could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have significant international sales and are subject to risks associated with operating in international markets. In each of 2009 and 2008, revenue from sales of our products internationally (for our purposes, outside of the United States and Canada) represented approximately 10% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenue. We generally provide technical expertise and limited marketing support, while our independent international distributors generally provide sales staff, local marketing and product service. We believe our international distributors are better able to service international markets due to their understanding of local market conditions and best business practices. International business operations are subject to inherent risks, including, among others: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the burdens of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • exposure to different legal standards and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • currency fluctuations and restrictions; • political, social and economic instability, including war and the threat of war, acts of terrorism, pandemics, boycotts, curtailment of trade or other business restrictions; • periodic foreign economic downturns; and • sales variability as a result of transacting our foreign sales in U.S. dollars. Any of these factors may adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, our business and operating results. Furthermore, as we increase our international sales, total revenue may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue, and that continued growth and profitability may require further expansion of our international operations. All of our international sales 18 are currently denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the relative value of the dollar could make our products more expensive and potentially less price competitive in international markets. We do not engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations. We believe that certification and compliance issues are critical to adoption of our lighting systems, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business. We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials in our products. Although we are not aware of any efforts to amend any existing legal requirements or implement new legal requirements in a manner with which we cannot comply, our revenue might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Moreover, although not legally required to do so, we strive to obtain certification for substantially all our products. In the United States, we seek, and to date have obtained, certification of substantially all of our products from Underwriters Laboratories (UL) or Intertek (ETL) and in Europe we seek, and to date have appropriately self certified substantially all of our products from Conformité Européenne (CE). Where appropriate in jurisdictions outside the United States and Europe, we seek to obtain other similar national or regional certifications for our products, such as Canadian Underwriters Laboratories (CUL) in Canada and Product Safety Electrical (PSE) in Japan. Although we believe that our broad knowledge and experience with electrical codes and safety standards have facilitated certification approvals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, that we will be able to maintain any such certifications for our existing products, especially since existing codes and standards were not created with our lighting products in mind. Moreover, although we are not aware of any effort to amend any existing certification standard or implement a new certification standard in a manner that would render us unable to maintain certification for our existing products or obtain certification for new products, our revenue might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. We must comply with regulatory requirements regarding internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, which will cause us to incur significant costs and our failure to comply with these requirements could cause our stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we annually evaluate and report on our systems of internal controls and, beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, that our independent registered public accounting firm report on its own evaluation of those controls. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and compliance costs and made certain activities more time-consuming and costly. In the future, there may be material weaknesses in our internal controls that would be required to be reported in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K and/or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. A negative reaction by the equity markets to the reporting of a material weakness could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, if we acquire a company with weak internal controls, it will take time to improve the internal controls of the acquired company to the same level of operating effectiveness as ours. Any failure to improve an acquired company’s financial systems could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 