1A. Risk Factors — Regulatory Oversight Of The Medical Device Industry Might Affect The Manner In Which We May Sell Medical Devices.” Our international operations subject us to laws regarding sanctioned countries, entities and persons, customs, import-export, laws regarding transactions in foreign countries and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Among other things, these laws restrict, and in some cases prohibit, U.S. companies from directly or indirectly selling goods, technology or services to people or entities in certain countries. In addition, these laws require that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices in foreign countries. Our research, development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by the controlling laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any damages that may result and any liability could exceed our resources. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, and our operations, business or assets could be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. In addition to the above regulations, we are and may be subject to regulation under federal and state laws, including, but not limited to, requirements regarding occupational health and safety, laboratory practices and the maintenance of personal health information. As a public company, we are subject to the securities laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We also are subject to other present, and could be subject to possible future, local, state, federal and foreign regulations. Third-Party Reimbursement. Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third-party payers, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payers, such as indemnity insurers, employer group health insurance programs and managed care plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the products. As a result, demand for our products is and will continue to be dependent in part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of these payers. The manner in which reimbursement is sought and obtained varies based upon the type of payer involved and the setting in which the product is furnished and utilized. Reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payers may be subject to periodic adjustments as a result of legislative, regulatory and policy changes as well as budgetary pressures. Possible reductions in, or eliminations of, coverage or reimbursement by third-party payers as a result of these changes may affect our customers’ revenue and ability to purchase our products. Any changes in the healthcare regulatory, payment or enforcement landscape relative to our customers’ healthcare services has the potential to significantly affect our operations and revenue. PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We seek patent protection for our key technology, products and product improvements, both in the U.S. and in selected foreign countries. When determined appropriate, we have enforced and plan to continue to enforce and defend our patent rights. In general, however, we do not rely on our patent estate to provide us with any significant competitive advantages as it relates to our existing product lines. We rely upon trade secrets and continuing technological innovations to develop and maintain our competitive position. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we have a policy of requiring our employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements also provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of their relationship with us must be kept confidential, except in specified circumstances. 12 Table of Contents AccuDrain®, Accell®, Atoll™, Bold®, Camino®, CRW®, Coral™, CUSA®, CUSA Excel®, DenLite®, Dissectron®, DuraGen®, DuraGen Plus®, DynaGraft® II, Hallu®-Fix, HINTEGRA®, ICOS™, Integra®, Integra Mozaik™, Integra OS™, Jarit®, LICOX®, Luxtec®, Manta Ray™, Miltex®, Mobius®, NeuraGen®, NeuraWrap™, Newdeal®, OmniSight®, OmniTract®, OrthoBlast® II, Qwix®, Padgett™, Radionics®, Selector®, Subtalar MBA®, TenoGlide®, Tethertm, Trel-X™, Trel-XC™, Tibiaxys™, Uni-Clip®, Ventrix™ and XKnife® are some of the material trademarks of Integra LifeSciences Corporation and its subsidiaries. MAYFIELD® is a registered trademark of SM USA, Inc., and is used by Integra under license. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2008, we had approximately 2,800 employees engaged in production and production support (including warehouse, engineering and facilities personnel), quality assurance/quality control, research and development, regulatory and clinical affairs, sales, marketing, administration and finance. Except for certain employees at our facilities in France and Mexico, none of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Financial information about our geographical areas is set forth under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — International Revenues and Operations” and in our financial statements Note 15, Segment and Geographic Information, to our Consolidated Financial Statements. SOURCES OF RAW MATERIALS In general, raw materials essential to our businesses are readily available from multiple sources. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Our policy is to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time. Certain of our products, including our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products, biomaterial products for the spine, nerve and tendon repair products and certain other products, contain material derived from bovine tissue. We take great care to provide that our products are safe and free of agents that can cause disease. In particular, the collagen used in the products that Integra manufactures is derived only from the deep flexor tendon of cattle less than 24 months old from New Zealand, a country that has never had a case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or from the U.S. We are also qualifying sources of collagen from another country that is considered BSE-free. The World Health Organization classifies different types of cattle tissue for relative risk of BSE transmission. Deep flexor tendon is in the lowest-risk category for BSE transmission (the same category as milk, for example), and is therefore considered to have a negligible risk of containing the agent that causes BSE. Certain of our Integra OrthoBiologics demineralized bone matrix products contain human tissue in the form of ground cortical and cancellous bone. We source the bone tissue only from FDA and AATB registered and inspected tissue banks. The donors are rigorously screened, tested, and processed in accordance with the FDA and AATB requirements. Only donated tissue from FDA and AATB registered, inspected, non-profit tissue banks is qualified to source for our raw materials. Additionally, each donor must pass all of the FDA specified bacterial and viral testing before the raw material is distributed, to Integra OrthoBiologics for further processing. We receive with each donor lot a certification of the safety of the raw material from the tissue bank’s Medical Director. As an added assurance of safety, each lot of bone is released into the manufacturing process only after a careful screening of the incoming bone and serology test records by our staff of QA microbiologists. During our manufacturing process, the bone particles are subjected to our proprietary process and terminally sterilized. This type of rigorous processing has been demonstrated through our testing to further enhance the safety and effectiveness of our DBM products. To date, our demineralized bone matrix products have a good safety record and are widely distributed in the United States and in over 40 countries. SEASONALITY Revenues during our second and fourth quarters tend to be stronger than the first and third quarters because many hospitals increase their purchases of our products during the second and fourth quarters, which coincides with the end of their budget cycles. 13 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”). In accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may view our financial information, including the information contained in this report, and other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, on the Internet, without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in the “SEC Filings” page of the Investor Relations section of our website at www.Integra-LS.com. You may also obtain a copy of any of these reports, without charge, from our investor relations department, 311 Enterprise Drive, Plainsboro, NJ 08536. Alternatively, you may view or obtain reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. in Washington, D.C. 20549, or at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference facilities. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made statements in this report, including statements under “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us including, among other things: • general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in our international markets; • our expectations and estimates concerning future financial performance, financing plans and the impact of competition; • anticipated trends in our business; • anticipated demand for our products, particularly capital equipment products; • our expectations concerning our ongoing restructuring, integration and manufacturing transfer and expansion activities; • existing and future regulations affecting our business; • our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing to fund capital expenditures and working capital requirements and acquisitions; • physicians’ willingness to adopt our recently launched and planned products, third-party payors’ willingness to provide or continue reimbursement for these products and our ability to secure regulatory approval for products in development; • initiatives launched by our competitors; • our ability to protect our intellectual property, including trade secrets; • our ability to complete acquisitions, integrate operations post-acquisition and maintain relationships with customers of acquired entities; • work stoppages at our facilities; and • other risk factors described in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this report. You can identify these forward-looking statements by forward-looking words such as “believe,” “may,” “could,” “might,” “will,” “estimate,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “seek,” “plan,” “expect,” “should,” “would” and similar expressions in this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results, including components of operating results such as gross margin and cost of product sales, may fluctuate from time to time, and such fluctuations could affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • current economic conditions, which could affect the ability of hospitals and other customers to purchase our products; • the impact of acquisitions; • the impact of our restructuring activities; • the timing of significant customer orders, which tend to increase in the second and fourth quarters to coincide with the end of budget cycles for many hospitals; • market acceptance of our existing products, as well as products in development; • the timing of regulatory approvals; • changes in the rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies of foreign countries in which we do business, such as the euro and the British pound; • expenses incurred and business lost in connection with product field corrections or recalls; • changes in the cost or decreases in the supply of raw materials, including energy and steel; • our ability to manufacture our products efficiently; • the timing of our research and development expenditures; and • reimbursement for our products by third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurers. The industry and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies. In general, there is intense competition among medical device companies. We compete with established medical technology companies in many of our product areas. Competition also comes from early-stage companies that have alternative technological solutions for our primary clinical targets, as well as universities, research institutions and other non-profit entities. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, research and development, marketing, manufacturing, sales, distribution services and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products. Our competitors may be able to gain market share by offering lower-cost products or by offering products that enjoy better reimbursement methodologies from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurance. Our competitive position will depend on our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approval for products under development, obtain and maintain reimbursement coverage under Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurance and obtain patent protection. We may need to develop new applications for our products to remain competitive. Technological advances by one or more of our current or future competitors or their achievement of superior reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurance could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success will depend upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology as well as to respond effectively to technological advances. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our profitability. For example, two of our largest competitors introduced an onlay dural graft matrix during 2004, a large company introduced a duraplasty product in 2006 and others may introduce similar products. The introduction and market acceptance of such products could reduce the sales, growth in sales and profitability of our duraplasty products. Competitors have also been developing products to compete with our extremity reconstruction implants, neuro critical care monitors and ultrasonic tissue ablation devices, among others. 15 Table of Contents Our largest competitors in the neurosurgery markets are the Medtronic Neurosurgery division of Medtronic, Inc., the Codman division of Johnson & Johnson, the Stryker Craniomaxillofacial division of Stryker Corporation and the Aesculap division of B. Braun Medical Inc. In addition, many of our neurosurgery product lines compete with smaller specialized companies or larger companies that do not otherwise focus on neurosurgery. Our competitors in extremity reconstruction include the DePuy division of Johnson & Johnson, Synthes, Inc. and Stryker Corporation, as well as other major orthopedic companies that carry a full line of reconstructive products. We also compete with Wright Medical Group, Inc., Small Bone Innovations, Inc., Tornier, Inc. and other companies in the extremity reconstruction market category. Our competitors in the spinal implant business include Medtronic, Inc., the DePuy division of Johnson & Johnson, Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Zimmer, NuVasive, Inc., Globus Medical, Inc., Alphatec Spine, Inc. and Orthofix. In surgical instruments, we compete with V. Mueller, a division of Cardinal Healthcare, as well as Aesculap. In addition, we compete with Codman and many smaller instrument companies in the reusable and disposable specialty instruments markets. The competitors in our orthobiologics business include such well-established companies as Medtronic, Inc., Synthes Inc. and Johnson & Johnson and also include several smaller, biologic-focused companies, such as Osteotech and Orthovita. Our private-label products face diverse and broad competition, depending on the market addressed by the product. Finally, in certain cases our products compete primarily against medical practices that treat a condition without using a device or any particular product, such as the medical practices that use autograft tissue instead of our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products and nerve repair products. Our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions, which requires us to incur substantial costs and potential liabilities for which we may never realize the anticipated benefits. In addition to internally generated growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions. Since the beginning of 2006, we have acquired 12 businesses or product lines at a total cost of approximately $443 million. We may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and our strategy ultimately may be unsuccessful. A significant portion of our growth in revenues has resulted from, and is expected to continue to result from, the acquisition of businesses complementary to our own. We engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and are in various stages of discussion regarding possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Any new acquisition can result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Certain businesses that we acquire may not have adequate financial, disclosure, regulatory, quality or other compliance controls at the time we acquire them. As we grow by acquisition, we must manage and integrate the new businesses to bring them into our systems for financial, disclosure, compliance, regulatory and quality control, realize economies of scale, and control costs. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering markets in which our marketing and sales force has limited experience or where experienced distribution alliances are not available. Our future profitability will depend in part upon our ability to develop further our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into or maintain satisfactory distribution networks. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. If we cannot integrate acquired operations, manage the cost of providing our products or price our products appropriately, our profitability could suffer. In addition, as a result of our acquisitions of other healthcare businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties, regulatory matters or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us, for which we may not be able to obtain insurance (or adequate insurance), or for which the indemnification may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate liabilities. Our future financial results could be adversely affected by impairments or other charges. Since we have grown through acquisitions, we had $212.1 million of goodwill and $50.0 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2008. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we are required to test both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We are also required to test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates — Valuation of Identifiable Intangible Assets, In-Process Research and Development Charges, and Goodwill” of this report. 16 Table of Contents SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” requires that we assess the impairment of our long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable as measured by the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, we had $176.0 million of other intangible assets. The value of biotechnology and medical device businesses is often volatile, and the assumptions underlying our estimates made in connection with our assessments under SFAS No. 142 or 144 may change as a result of that volatility or other factors outside our control and may result in impairment charges. The amount of any such impairment charges under SFAS No. 142 or 144 could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, including the notes and the common stock into which they may be converted. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of hospitals, other customers, suppliers and distributors to access funds or otherwise have available liquidity, which could reduce orders for our products or interrupt our production or distribution. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of hospitals and other customers to access funds to enable them to fund their operating and capital budgets. As a result, hospitals and other customers may reduce budgets or put all or part of their budgets on hold, which could have a negative effect on our sales, particularly the sales of more expensive capital equipment such as our ultrasonic surgical aspirators, neuromonitors and stereotactic products. The disruption in the global financial markets and the economic downturn may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness and to obtain financing for acquisitions or other general corporate and commercial purposes will depend on our operating and financial performance and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recently, global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions, a general tightening of credit, and an unprecedented level of market intervention from the United States and other governments. These events have adversely affected the U.S. and world economy, and may adversely affect the availability and cost of financing. There can be no assurances as to the length or severity of this period of disruption and the related economic downturn. To market our products under development we will first need to obtain regulatory approval. Further, if we fail to comply with the extensive governmental regulations that affect our business, we could be subject to penalties and could be precluded from marketing our products. As a manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, we are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and the Center for Medicare Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other federal governmental agencies and, in some jurisdictions, by state and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations govern the introduction of new medical devices, the observance of certain standards with respect to the design, manufacture, testing, labeling, promotion and sales of the devices, the maintenance of certain records, the ability to track devices, the reporting of potential product defects, the import and export of devices and other matters. We are facing an increasing amount of scrutiny and compliance costs as more states are implementing regulations governing medical devices, pharmaceuticals and/or biologics which affect many of our products. As a result, we are implementing additional procedures, controls and tracking and reporting processes, as well as paying additional permit and license fees, where required. Our products under development are subject to FDA approval or clearance prior to marketing for commercial use. The process of obtaining necessary FDA approvals or clearances can take years and is expensive and uncertain. The FDA has announced that it is reviewing the 510(k) Premarket Notification process, and there may be requirements for more extensive testing and/or clinical trials required for products cleared to market under the 510(k) process. The FDA may also require the more extensive PMA process for certain products. Our inability to obtain required regulatory approval on a timely or acceptable basis could harm our business. Further, approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed, warnings that may be required to accompany the product or additional restrictions placed on the sale and/or use of the product. Further studies, including clinical trials and FDA approvals, may be required to gain approval for the use of a product for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially approved or cleared or for significant changes to the product. These studies could take years to complete and could be expensive, and there is no guarantee that the results will convince the FDA to approve or clear the additional indication. Any negative outcome in our clinical trials could adversely impact our ability to compete against alternative products or technologies, which could affect our sales. In addition, for products with an approved PMA, the FDA requires annual reports and may require post-approval surveillance programs and/or studies to monitor the products’ safety and effectiveness. Results of post-approval programs may limit or expand the further marketing of the product. We are also seeing third-party intermediaries require clinical trial data for products cleared through the 510(k) process in order to continue reimbursement coverage. These clinical trials could take years to complete and be expensive and there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve the additional indications for use. If the FDA does not approve the additional indications for use, this could affect our ability to obtain reimbursement for these products and adversely affect our ability to compete against alternative products or technologies, which could affect our sales. 17 Table of Contents Another risk of application to the FDA relates to the regulatory classification of new products or proposed new uses for existing products. In the filing of each application, we make a judgment about the appropriate form and content of the application. If the FDA disagrees with our judgment in any particular case and, for example, requires us to file a PMA application rather than allowing us to market for approved uses while we seek broader approvals or requires extensive additional clinical data, the time and expense required to obtain the required approval might be significantly increased or approval might not be granted. Approved products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records, reporting of adverse events and product recalls, documentation, and labeling and promotion of medical devices. For example, some of our orthobiologics products are subject to FDA and certain state regulations regarding human cells, tissues, and cellular or tissue-based products, which include requirements for establishment registration and listing, donor eligibility, current good tissue practices, labeling, adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Some states have their own tissue banking regulation. We are licensed or have permits as a tissue bank in California, Florida, New York and Maryland. In addition, tissue banks may undergo voluntary accreditation by the American Association of Tissue Banks, or the AATB. The AATB has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards. These and future regulatory requirements could significantly increase our production or purchasing costs and could even prevent us from making or obtaining our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we or a third-party manufacturer change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may require a new approval before that process may be used. Failure to develop our manufacturing capability could mean that, even if we were to develop promising new products, we might not be able to produce them profitably, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. Manufacturing facilities, both international and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA. In addition, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us to enforcement action, including product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, restrictions on or injunctions against marketing our product or products based on our technology, cessation of operations and civil and criminal penalties. We are also subject to the regulatory requirements of countries outside the U.S. where we do business. For example, under the European Union Medical Device Directive, all medical devices must meet the Medical Device Directive standards and receive CE Mark Certification prior to marketing in the European Union. CE Mark Certification requires a comprehensive Quality System program, comprehensive technical documentation and data on the product, which a “Notified Body” in Europe reviews. In addition, we must be certified to the ISO 13485:2003 Quality System standards and maintain this certification in order to market our products in the European Union, Canada, Japan, Latin America, Asia-Pacific and most other countries outside the U.S. As a result of an amendment to Japan’s Pharmaceutical Affairs Law that went into effect on April 1, 2005, new regulations and requirements exist for obtaining approval of medical devices, including new requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, the manufacturing of products and the distribution of products in Japan. Significant resources may be needed to comply with the extensive auditing of and requests for documentation relating to all manufacturing facilities of our company and our vendors by the Pharmaceutical Medical Device Agency and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan to comply with the amendment to the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law. These new regulations may affect our ability to obtain approvals of new products for sale in Japan. Additionally, the European Union as well as many other countries outside the U.S. have or may be considering implementing new or amended medical device regulations that require extensive documentation, including clinical trial data, as well as may require audits of our manufacturing facilities. There are also associated fees with these new regulations. These regulations are required for all new products and re-registration of our medical devices. Our products that contain human derived tissue, including those containing de-mineralized bone matrices, are not medical devices in the European Union as defined in the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EC). They are also not medicinal products as defined in Directive 2001/83/EC. Today, regulations, if applicable, are different from one EU member state to the next. Due to the absence of a harmonized regulatory framework and the proposed regulation for advanced therapy medicinal products in the EU, as well as for other countries, the approval process for human derived cell or tissue based medical products may be extensive, lengthy, expensive, and unpredictable. Among others, some of our orthobiologics products are subject to European Union member states’ regulations that govern the donation, procurement, testing, coding, traceability, processing, preservation, storage, and distribution of human tissues and cells and cellular or tissue-based products. These European Union member states’ regulations include requirements for registration, listing, labeling, adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Some EU member states have their own tissue banking regulations. 18 Table of Contents Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation. Certain of our products, including our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products, biomaterial products for the spine, nerve and tendon repair products and certain other products, contain material derived from bovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are increasingly subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from animal sources, because of concern that materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with no known cure. Cases of BSE in cattle discovered in Canada and the U.S. have increased awareness of the issue in North America. We take great care to provide that our products are safe and free of agents that can cause disease. In particular, we have qualified our source of collagen from a country outside the U.S. that is considered BSE-free. The World Health Organization classifies different types of cattle tissue for relative risk of BSE transmission. Deep flexor tendon is in the lowest-risk categories for BSE transmission (the same category as milk, for example), and are therefore considered to have a negligible risk of containing the agent that causes BSE (an improperly folded protein known as a prion). Nevertheless, products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, may become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern over the potential for prion transmission. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our current business or our ability to expand our business. Certain countries, such as Japan, China, Taiwan and Argentina, have issued regulations that require our collagen products be processed from bovine tendon sourced from countries where no cases of BSE have occurred, and the European Union has requested that our dural replacement products be sourced from bovine tendon sourced from a country where no cases of BSE have occurred. In addition, Japan has issued new regulations regarding medical devices that contain tissue of animal origin. Among other regulations, Japan requires that the tendon used in the manufacture of medical devices sold in Japan originate in a country that has never had a case of BSE. Currently, we purchase our tendon from the U.S. and New Zealand. We received approval in Japan for the use of New Zealand-sourced tendon in the manufacturing of our products sold in Japan. If we cannot continue to use or qualify a source of tendon from New Zealand or another country that has never had a case of BSE, we will not be permitted to sell our collagen products in Japan. Certain of our products are derived from human tissue and are subject to additional regulations and requirements. We manufacture medical devices derived from human tissue (demineralized bone tissue). The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. Examples include bone, ligament, skin and cornea. Some HCT/Ps also meet the definition of a biological product, medical device or drug regulated under the FFDCA. Section 361 of the PHSA authorizes the FDA to issue regulations to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable disease. HCT/Ps regulated as “361” HCT/Ps are subject to requirements relating to registering facilities and listing products with FDA, screening and testing for tissue donor eligibility, Good Tissue Practice, or GTP, when processing, storing, labeling, and distribution HCT/Ps, including required labeling information, stringent record keeping; and adverse event reporting These biologic, device or drug HCT/Ps must comply both with the requirements exclusively applicable to 361 HCT/Ps and, in addition, with requirements applicable to biologics, devices or drugs, including premarket clearance or approval. Some states have their own tissue banking regulation. We are licensed or have permits as a tissue bank in California, Florida, New York and Maryland. In addition, tissue banks may undergo voluntary accreditation by the American Association of Tissue Banks, or the AATB. The AATB has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. In the European Union, regulations, if applicable, are different from one EU member state to the next. Due to the absence of a harmonized regulatory framework and the proposed regulation for advanced therapy medicinal products in the EU, as well as for other countries, the approval process for human derived cell or tissue based medical products may be extensive, lengthy, expensive, and unpredictable. Among others, some of our orthobiologics products are subject to European Union member states’ regulations that govern the donation, procurement, testing, coding, traceability, processing, preservation, storage, and distribution of human tissues and cells and cellular or tissue-based products. These European Union member states’ regulations include requirements for registration, listing, labeling, adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Some EU member states have their own tissue banking regulations. 19 Table of Contents Lack of market acceptance for our products or market preference for technologies that compete with our products could reduce our revenues and profitability. We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products that we may develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. Certain of the medical indications that can be treated by our devices can also be treated by other medical devices or by medical practices that do not include a device. The medical community widely accepts many alternative treatments, and certain of these other treatments have a long history of use. For example, the use of autograft tissue is a well-established means for repairing the dermis, and it competes for acceptance in the market with the Integra® Dermal Regeneration Template. We cannot be certain that our devices and procedures will be able to replace those established treatments or that either physicians or the medical community in general will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. For example, market acceptance of our bone graft substitutes will depend on our ability to demonstrate that our existing bone graft substitutes and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing treatment options. Additionally, if there are negative events in the industry, whether real or perceived, there could be a negative impact on the industry as a whole. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of natural bone graft substitutes. In addition, our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop additional products. Even if we determine that a product candidate has medical benefits, the cost of commercializing that product candidate could be too high to justify development. Competitors could develop products that are more effective, achieve more favorable reimbursement status from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and third-party health insurance, cost less or are ready for commercial introduction before our products. If we are unable to develop additional commercially viable products, our future prospects could be adversely affected. Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to convince prospective collaborators and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies, to manufacture products in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs, and to supply and service sufficient quantities of our products directly or through our distribution alliances. In addition, unfavorable reimbursement methodologies, or adverse determinations of third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and third-party health insurance, against our products or third-party determinations that favor a competitor’s product over ours, could harm acceptance or continued use of our products. The industry is subject to rapid and continuous change arising from, among other things, consolidation, technological improvements and the pressure on third-party payors and providers to reduce healthcare costs. One or more of these factors may vary unpredictably, and such variations could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may not be able to adjust our contemplated plan of development to meet changing market demands. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, potentially enabling third parties to use our technology or very similar technology and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. To compete effectively, we depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. We own or have licensed patents that cover aspects of some of our product lines. However, our patents may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that our patents do not cover. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications usually takes approximately three years. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon unpatented trade secrets which we may be unable to protect. Our competitive position also depends upon unpatented trade secrets, which are difficult to protect. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, that our trade secrets will not be disclosed or that we can effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that, except in specified circumstances, all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of their relationship with us must be kept confidential. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. 20 Table of Contents Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others or that their rights are invalid or unenforceable. If we do not prevail in any litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we would be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license for the proprietary rights involved. Any required license may be unavailable to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive and allow our competitors to access the same technology we license. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design our product so as not to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be unable to sell some of our products, and this potential inability could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We may be involved in lawsuits relating to our intellectual property rights and promotional practices, which may be expensive. To protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate or defend legal proceedings, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings, against or by third parties. For example, Codman & Shurtleff, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson, commenced an action in May 2006 seeking declaratory relief that its DURAFORM® product does not infringe our patent covering our duraplasty products and that our patent is invalid and unenforceable. In addition, we may have to institute proceedings regarding our competitors’ promotional practices or defend proceedings regarding our promotional practices. Litigation is costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of that litigation could affect our profitability. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. In addition, in response to our claims against other parties, those parties could assert counterclaims against us. It may be difficult to replace some of our suppliers. Outside vendors, some of whom are sole-source suppliers, provide key components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that alternative sources for many of these components and raw materials are available, any interruption in supply of a limited or sole-source component or raw material could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new or alternative source of supply is identified and qualified. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a component or raw material, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could harm our ability to manufacture products. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired. We believe that these factors are most likely to affect the following products that we manufacture: • our collagen-based products, such as the Integra® Dermal Regeneration Template and wound dressing products, the DuraGen® family of products, and our Absorbable Collagen Sponges; • our products made from silicone, such as our neurosurgical shunts and drainage systems and hemodynamic shunts; and • products which use many different electronic parts from numerous suppliers, such as our intracranial monitors and catheters. In addition, some of our orthobiologics products rely on a small number of tissue banks accredited by the American Association of Tissue Banks, or AATB, for the supply of human tissue, a crucial component of our bone graft substitutes. We cannot be certain that these tissue banks will be able to fulfill our requirements or that we will be able to successfully negotiate with other accredited tissue facilities on satisfactory terms. If we were suddenly unable to purchase products from one or more of these companies, we would need a significant period of time to qualify a replacement, and the production of any affected products could be disrupted. While it is our policy to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time, we remain at risk that we will not be able to qualify new components or materials quickly enough to prevent a disruption if one or more of our suppliers ceases production of important components or materials. 21 Table of Contents If any of our manufacturing facilities were damaged and/or our manufacturing or business processes interrupted, we could experience lost revenues and our business could be seriously harmed. We manufacture our products in a limited number of facilities. Damage to our manufacturing, development or research facilities because of fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure, unauthorized entry or other events could cause us to cease development and manufacturing of some or all of our products. In particular, our San Diego and Irvine, California facilities are susceptible to earthquake damage, wildfire damage and power losses from electrical shortages as are other businesses in the Southern California area. Our Anasco, Puerto Rico plant, where we manufacture collagen, silicone and our private-label products, is vulnerable to hurricane, storm and wind damage. Although we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance coverage on these facilities, our insurance might not cover all losses under such circumstances, and we may not be able to renew or obtain such insurance in the future on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs. In addition, certain of our surgical instruments have some manufacturing processes performed in Pakistan, which is subject to political instability and unrest, and we purchase a much smaller amount of instruments directly from vendors there. Such instability could interrupt our ability to sell surgical instruments to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. While we have developed a relationship with an alternative provider of these services in another country, and continue to work to develop other providers in other countries, we cannot guarantee that we will be completely successful in achieving all of these relationships. Even if we are successful in establishing all of these alternative relationships, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so at the same level of costs or that we will be able to pass along additional costs to our customers. We are planning on a phased deployment of a global enterprise business system in all facilities. This system, the hosting and maintenance of which we outsource, will replace the legacy enterprise resource planning applications currently in place in the facilities. The new system has already been deployed in some facilities. Currently, we do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan for the Company’s infrastructure but we have adopted alternative solutions to mitigate business risk, including backup equipment, power and communications. We also implemented a comprehensive backup and recovery process for our key software applications. Our global production and distribution operations are dependent on the effective management of information flow between facilities. An interruption of the support provided by our enterprise business systems could have a material adverse effect on the business. We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to our international sales and operations, including fluctuations in exchange rates, local economic conditions and delays in collection of accounts receivable. We generate significant revenues outside the U.S. in multiple foreign currencies including euros, British pounds, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen and Australian dollars, and in U.S. dollar-denominated transactions conducted with customers who generate revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For those foreign customers who purchase our products in U.S. dollars, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which those customers do business may have a negative impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency. Since we have operations based outside the U.S. and we generate revenues and incur operating expenses in multiple foreign currencies including euros, British pounds, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, Mexican pesos, Japanese yen, Australian dollars and New Zealand dollars, we experience currency exchange risk with respect to those foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage operating foreign currency risk. As the volume of our business transacted in foreign currencies increases, we expect to continue to assess the potential effects that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on our business. If we believe that this potential impact presents a significant risk to our business, we may enter into derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk. In general, we cannot predict the consolidated effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Our international operations subject us to laws regarding sanctioned countries, entities and persons, customs, import-export, laws regarding transactions in foreign countries and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Among other things, these laws restrict, and in some cases prohibit, U.S. companies from directly or indirectly selling goods, technology or services to people or entities in certain countries. In addition, these laws require that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices in foreign countries. 22 Table of Contents Local economic conditions, legal, regulatory or political considerations, the effectiveness of our sales representatives and distributors, local competition and changes in local medical practice could also affect our sales to foreign markets. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S. Changes in the healthcare industry may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, may reduce the size of the market for our products, or may eliminate a market, any of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies that could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: • major third-party payors of hospital services and hospital outpatient services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, annually revise their payment methodologies, which can result in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital charges for certain medical procedures or the elimination of reimbursement; • Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurer cutbacks could create downward price pressure on our products; • recently effected local Medicare coverage determinations will eliminate reimbursement for certain of our matrix wound dressing products in most regions, negatively affecting our market for these products, and future determinations could eliminate reimbursement for these products in other regions and could eliminate reimbursement for other products; • potential legislative proposals have been considered that would result in major reforms in the U.S. healthcare system that could have an adverse effect on our business; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the U.S. who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; • we are party to contracts with group purchasing organizations, which negotiate pricing for many member hospitals, that require us to discount our prices for certain of our products and limit our ability to raise prices for certain of our products, particularly surgical instruments; • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in domestic and international markets; • there are proposed and existing laws, regulations and industry policies in domestic and international markets regulating the sales and marketing practices and the pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry; • proposed laws or regulations that will permit hospitals to provide financial incentives to doctors for reducing hospital costs (known as gainsharing) and to award physician efficiency (known as physician profiling) could reduce prices; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products that could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. Both the pressures to reduce prices for our products in response to these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our levels of revenues and profitability of sales. Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices. There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products to healthcare professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and state law equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, in some instances civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements to comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that: • government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or • government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation. 23 Table of Contents In January 2004, ADVAMED, the principal U.S. trade association for the medical device industry, put in place a model “code of conduct” that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. We have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the ADVAMED Code, and we provide routine training to our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. Nevertheless, the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. For example, proposed federal legislation and recent state legislation would require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to health care professionals. In addition, prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight, on the state and federal levels, over some major device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has limited the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as consultants. We have in place policies to govern how we may retain healthcare professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and provide training on these policies. Finally, various hospital organizations, medical societies and trade associations are establishing their own practices that may require detailed disclosures of relationships between healthcare professionals and medical device companies or ban or restrict certain marketing and sales practices such as gifts and business meals. Our private-label business depends significantly on key relationships with third parties, which we could be unable to establish and maintain. Our private-label business depends in part on our entering into and maintaining collaborative or alliance agreements with third parties concerning product marketing, as well as research and development programs. Our most important alliance is our agreement with the Wyeth BioPharma division of Wyeth for the development of collagen matrices to be used in conjunction with Wyeth BioPharma’s recombinant bone protein, a protein that stimulates the growth of bone in humans. The third parties with whom we have entered into agreements might terminate these agreements for a variety of reasons, including developing other sources for the products that we supply. Termination of any of our alliances would require us to develop other means to distribute the affected products and could adversely affect our expectations for the growth of private-label products. We may have significant product liability exposure and our insurance may not cover all potential claims. We are exposed to product liability and other claims in the event that our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm. We may not be able to obtain insurance for the potential liability on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs. Any potential product liability claims could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that then in effect. We are subject to requirements relating to hazardous materials which may impose significant compliance or other costs on us. Our research, development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials. In addition, we own and/or lease a number of facilities at which hazardous materials have been used in the past. Finally, we have acquired various companies that historically have used certain hazardous materials and that have owned and/or leased facilities at which hazardous materials have been used. For all of these reasons, we are subject to federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, treatment, remediation, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products (“Environmental Laws”). For example, our allograft bone tissue processing may generate waste materials, which in the U.S., are classified as medical waste under Environmental Laws. Although we believe that our procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the Environmental Laws, the Environmental Laws may be amended in ways that increase our cost of compliance, perhaps materially. Furthermore, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated, and there is also a risk that such contamination previously has occurred in connection with one of our facilities or in connection with one of the companies we have purchased. In the event of such an accident, or contamination we could be held liable for any damages that result and any related liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance and could exceed our resources. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. 24 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could harm our business. We believe our success depends on the contributions of a number of our key personnel, including Stuart M. Essig, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we lose the services of key personnel, those losses could materially harm our business. We maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Essig and two other members of management. We have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. In 2007, management identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting related to (1) the complement of its personnel; (2) accounts reconciliation; (3) intercompany transactions; (4) income tax accounts; and (5) the configuration, segregation of duties and access to key financial reporting applications. Remediation of these weaknesses has been completed as of December 31, 2008. We will continue to take further steps in an attempt to strengthen our control processes and procedures. While we aim to work diligently to ensure a robust accounting system that is devoid of material weaknesses, given the growth of our business through acquisitions and the complexity of the accounting rules, we may, in the future, identify additional material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or certain covenants related to our outstanding revolving credit facility, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or certain covenants related to our outstanding revolving credit facility, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. See “Part I. Item 4 Controls and Procedures” for a further discussion of our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Access to the capital markets may be more expensive or subject to delays until such time as we qualify to file short-form registration statements. Currently we are ineligible to use a “short-form” registration statement, which would allow us to incorporate by reference future reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other SEC reports into our registration statements, until we have filed all of our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner for a period of twelve consecutive months. Additionally, we currently do not qualify as a “well-known seasoned issuer” which previously enabled us to, among other things, file shelf registration statements and have them declared effectively immediately by the SEC without risk of SEC review. As a result, any attempt by us to access the capital markets while we are unable to use a short-form registration statement could be more expensive or subject to delays. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 