Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some of the factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect our company. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We have limited revenues and may be unable to cover our cost of operations unless we successfully increase our revenues and generate sufficient operating income from the sale of our products or raise additional debt or equity capital. We have experienced net losses of approximately $8,577,000 and $5,469,000 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately 11 $50,290,000 and negative working capital of approximately $3,106,000, including cash and cash equivalents of approximately $4,434,000. In order for us to attain profitability and growth, we will need to successfully execute our production, marketing and sales plans for our Seesmart product line and improving our distribution and supply chain performance. We may fail to achieve profitability in the future, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. Continuing losses could exhaust our capital resources and force us to scale back, suspend or discontinue our operations. We plan on continuing to make significant expenditures in administration, sales, marketing and product development to support our growth strategy, which may result in operating losses in future periods. These expenditures may include costs associated with hiring additional personnel, expanding our sales and marketing activities, continuing our research and development relating to new products and enhancing existing products and manufacturing activities for our existing and new products, including our Seesmart product line. We expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we spend resources on growing our business, and if our revenue does not correspondingly increase, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of common and preferred stock. The actual amount of funds that we will need to meet our operating needs will be determined by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the timing and volume of sales transactions, the success of our marketing strategy, market acceptance of our products, the success of our manufacturing and research and development efforts (including any unanticipated delays), the costs associated with obtaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights, regulatory changes, competition, technological developments in the market, evolving industry standards and the amount of working capital investments we are required to make. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain sufficient outside capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to scale back, suspend or discontinue operations. The future issuance of additional shares of common stock and/or preferred stock could dilute existing shareholders. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, we currently have 120,000,000 shares of common stock authorized and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized. In connection with our 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our Board of Directors has recommended that stockholders approve an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation which would increase the number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance to 150,000,000 shares. To the extent that common shares are available for issuance, subject to compliance with applicable stock exchange listing rules, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as the board of directors may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock held by our existing shareholders. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation provide that our Board of Directors may designate the rights and preferences of preferred stock without a vote by the shareholders. A new series of preferred stock holders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock insofar as such series: • provides for voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock; • provides for dividends that must be paid prior to any distributions on our common stock • receives preferences over the holders of common stock or surplus funds in the event of our dissolution or liquidation; or • has to potential to delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company, and discourage bids for our common stock. A substantial portion of our capital structure consists of convertible preferred stock which has a liquidation preference senior to our common stock and is convertible into shares of our common stock at prices that are less than current market values. As of March 28, 2013, 74,871,444 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Up to 20,501,754 additional shares of our common stock may be issued upon the conversion of our issued and outstanding preferred stock. Our preferred stock consists of shares of Series B preferred stock, convertible into 153 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $0.13, shares of Series C preferred stock, convertible into 14,515,895 shares of common 12 stock at a conversion price of $0.6889 (subject to the issuance of additional shares in the event of a liquidity event and for accrued dividends), shares of Series D preferred stock, convertible into 1,712,171 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $0.6959, and Series E preferred stock, convertible into 4,273,504 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $1.17. All of the outstanding shares of our Series B, C, and E are held by RVL 1, LLC. None of our shares of Series C or E preferred stock are currently convertible into shares of our common stock. These shares are expected to become convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock in the second quarter of 2013. The conversion of the convertible preferred stock into common stock may result in significant dilution to our current stockholders. In addition, sales of large amounts of common stock in the public market upon exercise or conversion could materially adversely affect the share price. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements that offer protections to shareholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies. A majority of our outstanding stock is owned by RVL 1, LLC. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5615. As a controlled company, we are exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including that: • compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. We currently utilize these exemptions and intend to do so in the future. Accordingly, our shareholders are not and will not be afforded the same protections as shareholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies that are subject to the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a result, it is possible that our directors will have interests and take actions that are in conflict with the interests of the shareholders. We are controlled by our majority shareholder, RVL 1, LLC whose interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. RVL 1, LLC beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock and preferred stock. Consequently, RVL 1, LLC controls the outcome of all matters submitted for shareholder action, including the composition of our board of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Through its representation on our board of directors, RVL 1, LLC has a controlling influence on our strategic direction, policies and management, including the ability to appoint and remove officers. As a result, RVL 1, LLC may cause us to take actions that may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. For example, RVL 1, LLC may prevent, delay or accelerate any transaction involving a change in control of us or in which our shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares, or may determine to pursue a transaction not involving a premium. If we are not able to compete effectively against companies with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. The lighting industry is highly competitive. In the high performance lighting markets in which we sell our LED lighting solutions, our products compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by larger and better-established lighting operators. Management expects competition to intensify in the future. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. Our competitors may acquire or be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with, larger, well established and well-financed competitors. Therefore, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and devote substantially more resources to product development. It is difficult to effectively compete with companies that have these resources so we cannot assure that we will ever become a significant company in the industry. 13 In the replacement lamp market where we sell our Array line of LED products, we expect to encounter competition from an even greater number of companies. Our competitors are expected to include the large, established companies in the general lighting industry, such as GE Lighting, Osram Sylvania and Royal Philips Lighting. We believe each of these competitors has undertaken initiatives to develop white light LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED lighting products than we do. We may also face increased competition from traditional lighting fixture companies, such as Acuity Brands Lighting, Cooper Lighting, Hubbell Lighting, Lithonia Lighting and Royal Philips Electronics. In each of our markets, we also anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems that might not infringe on our patents. Our competitors’ lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. The relatively low barriers to entry into the lighting industry and the limited proprietary nature of many lighting products also permit new competitors to enter the industry easily. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value in our brands. If our advanced lighting products do not gain wider market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability may be limited. We face competition from both traditional lighting technologies, such as incandescent, florescent and neon lighting, and from competitors engaged in providing LED lighting products. Traditional lighting technologies have the advantage of a long history of market acceptance and familiarity as compared to our LED lighting solutions. Potential customers for our LED products may be reluctant to adopt these as alternatives to traditional lighting technologies because of their higher initial cost to achieve comparable light output, although our LED lighting products tend to be more energy efficient and require less maintenance. Our success will depend upon both the increased acceptance of our LED products as an alternative to traditional lighting technologies and the development of higher lumen producing products to meet traditional lighting applications. Obstacles to adoption of LED lighting in the general lighting market include the high initial cost of high brightness white LEDs and the need for further advances in brightness, color characteristics, efficiency and the predicted life of the LEDs before they require replacement. Our future results are dependent upon sales growth in the commercial, hospitality, institutional, retail and sign markets. As part of our sales and marketing strategy, we actively seek to educate our target markets as to the advantages of our LED lighting solutions. We believe that achievement of this objective is critical to our future success. Our lighting products may not continue to gain market share within the overall lighting market or competitors may introduce better lighting technologies, displacing our LED and other lighting products in the market. If acceptance of our lighting products in general does not continue to grow, then opportunities to increase our revenue and operate profitably may be limited. Integration of Seesmart Technologies Inc. may be difficult to achieve and will consume significant financial and managerial resources which may adversely affect operations. Part of our strategy to increase revenue and market share is to grow through strategic acquisitions in order to complement and expand our business. On December 20, 2012, we acquired Seesmart Technologies Inc. This acquisition involves risks related to the integration and management of technology, operations and personnel of two companies. The integration of this business will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We must operate with Seesmart Technologies Inc. as a combined organization utilizing common information and communications systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating our operations with Seesmart Technologies Inc., including: • exposure to unknown liabilities of Seesmart Technologies Inc. or its assets; • potential conflicts between business cultures; • adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies; 14 • disruption of our ongoing business; • potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships; • potential constraints of management resources; • inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of Seesmart Technologies Inc.’s technology; • failure to realize the potential of Seesmart Technologies Inc.’s technologies, complete product development, or properly obtain or secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights; and • loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. In addition, we are transitioning our Corporate headquarters from Charlotte, North Carolina to Stamford, Connecticut. Seesmart has California and Illinois locations. The geographic distance between the companies and their respective offices and operations increases the risk that the integration will not be completed successfully or in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies. We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business. We may continue to expand our business through strategic acquisitions as we have in the past. The success of any acquisition will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable candidates; • competition from other companies for the purchase of available candidates; • our ability to value those candidates accurately and negotiate favorable terms for those acquisitions; • the availability of funds to finance acquisitions; • the ability to establish new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business; • the ability to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products or services; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the acquired businesses. We may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses and completing acquisitions in the future. We also may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete acquisitions. Acquired businesses may fail to meet our performance expectations. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition as rapidly as expected, or at all, investors or analysts may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our acquisitions could result in future impairment charges and other charges which could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of our acquisition of Seesmart Technologies Inc. and in consideration of future acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets have been or will be recorded. At the purchase date, the recorded amounts for goodwill and other intangible assets represent fair values estimated at a point in time and are based on valuations that require significant estimates and assumptions about future events, which are derived from information obtained from the management of the acquired businesses and our business plans for the acquired businesses or intellectual property. If estimates and assumptions used to initially record goodwill and intangible assets do not materialize, ongoing reviews of the carrying amounts of such goodwill and intangible assets may result in impairments which will require us to record a charge in the period in which such an impairment is identified. Such charge could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following factors also could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: • charges for stock-based compensation; 15 • accrual of newly identified pre-acquisition contingent liabilities, in which case the related charge could be required to be included in earnings in the period in which the accrual is determined to the extent it is identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and • charges to income to eliminate certain pre-acquisition activities that duplicate those of the combined company or to reduce our cost structure. 16 If components used in our finished products become unavailable, or third-party manufacturers otherwise experience delays, we may incur delays in shipment, which would damage our business. We depend on third-party suppliers for substantially all of our components and products. We purchase these products and components from third-party suppliers that serve the advanced lighting systems market and we believe that alternative sources of supply are readily available for most products and components. However, consolidation in the LED lighting industry could result in one or more current suppliers being acquired by a competitor, rendering us unable to continue purchasing necessary amounts of key components at competitive prices. In addition, for certain of our customized components, arrangements for additional or replacement suppliers will take time and result in delays. We purchase products and components pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. This means we are vulnerable to unanticipated price increases and product shortages. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components and products, or our inability to obtain components and products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In an effort to reduce manufacturing costs, we outsource the production of certain parts and components as well as finished goods in our product lines to a number of suppliers. There is no production overlap between our third-party manufacturers domestically and overseas. While we believe alternative manufacturers for these products are available, we have selected these particular manufacturers based on their ability to consistently produce these products per our specifications ensuring the best quality product at the most cost effective price. We depend on our third-party manufacturers to satisfy performance and quality specifications and to dedicate sufficient production capacity within scheduled delivery times. Accordingly, the loss of all or one of these manufacturers or delays in obtaining shipments could have a material adverse effect on our operations until such time as an alternative manufacturer could be found. We may be subject to various import duties applicable to materials manufactured in foreign countries and, in addition, may be affected by various other import and export restrictions, as well as other considerations or developments impacting upon international trade, including economic or political instability, shipping delays and product quotas. These international trade factors will, under certain circumstances, have an impact both on the cost of components (which will, in turn, have an impact on the cost to us of the manufactured product) and the wholesale and retail prices of our products. If the companies to which we outsource the manufacture of our products fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, our revenue and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. We outsource a significant portion of the manufacture and assembly of our products. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in the U.S. and China. These manufacturers supply raw materials (in some cases we procure and provide our contract manufacturers with certain components, such as LEDs) and provide necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us without adequate notice, or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture and ship our lighting products until replacement manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process. If it became necessary to do so, we may not be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain additional risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • risk of loss of inventory while in transit from foreign manufacturers; and • risks associated with international commerce, particularly with China, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property and political and economic instability. 17 Any interruption in our ability to manufacture and distribute products could result in delays in shipment, lost sales, reductions in revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. We depend on distributors and independent sales representatives for a substantial portion of our revenue and sales, and the failure to successfully manage our relationships with these third-parties, or the termination of these relationships, could cause our revenue to decline and harm our business. We intend to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain products. Most of our products are sold through independent distributors and agents. A portion of our revenue comes from sales to distributors including systems integrators, distributors and resellers. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract, and may be subject to termination at any time. The agreements that are formalized in a contract are generally short-term, not exclusive, and can be cancelled by these sales channels without significant financial consequence. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to end-users. We cannot control how these sales channels perform and cannot be certain that we or end-users will be satisfied by their performance. If these distributors and agents significantly change their terms with us, or change their historical pattern of ordering products from us, there could be a significant impact on our revenue and profits. If we do not successfully expand our distribution network, we may not be able to increase sales to meet growth expectations. Our growth depends on our ability to expand our distribution network and our internal sales and service organization. Future success depends on substantially increasing the size and scope of the distribution network, both domestically and internationally. We may face intense competition for personnel and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified business development and sales personnel on a timely basis. Moreover, given the large scale deployment required by some customers, we may need to hire and retain a number of highly trained customer service and support personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase the size of the customer service and support organization on a timely basis to provide the high quality of support required by our customers. The ability to add additional business development and sales and customer service personnel could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of customers. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products or require us to pay royalties or incur substantial costs from litigation or development of non-infringing technology. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We may receive notices that claim we have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. Even if these claims are not valid, they could subject us to significant costs. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert our attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We have engaged in litigation and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. A successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or develop or license technology with comparable functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our products could contain defects or they may be installed or operated incorrectly, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. Despite testing by us, errors have been found and may be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenue, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our lighting products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our lighting products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to end-users or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers and end-users could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed. To a significant extent, our success will depend on our senior management team, including the Chief Executive Officer, Robert V. LaPenta, the President, Charles Schafer, and other members of the executive team. The loss of any of these individuals could severely harm the business. Our success also depends on our continued ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In particular, we may 18 encounter difficulties in recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, which could harm our ability to develop new products and adversely impact our relationships with existing and future customers. The inability to attract and retain necessary technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel could harm our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products and could adversely affect our business and operating results. The reduction or elimination of investments in, or incentives to adopt, LED lighting or the elimination of, or changes in, policies, incentives or rebates in certain states or countries that encourage the use of LEDs over some traditional lighting technologies could cause the growth in demand for our products to slow, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, profits and margins. 19 We believe the near-term growth of the LED market will be accelerated by government policies in certain countries that either directly promote the use of LEDs or discourage the use of some traditional lighting technologies. Today, the upfront cost of LED lighting exceeds the upfront cost for some traditional lighting technologies that provide similar lumen output in many applications. However, some governments around the world have used policy initiatives to accelerate the development and adoption of LED lighting and other non-traditional lighting technologies that are seen as more environmentally friendly compared to some traditional lighting technologies. Reductions in (including as a result of any budgetary constraints), or the elimination of, government investment and favorable energy policies could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenues, profits and margins. Further, if our products fail to qualify for any financial incentives or rebates provided by governmental agencies or utilities for which our competitors’ products qualify, such programs may diminish or eliminate our ability to compete by offering products at lower prices than our competitors. We believe that certification and compliance issues are critical to adoption of our lighting systems, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business. We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials in our products. Although we are not aware of any efforts to amend any existing legal requirements or implement new legal requirements in a manner with which we cannot comply, our revenue might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Moreover, although not legally required to do so, we strive to obtain certification for substantially all our products. In the United States, we seek, and to date have obtained, certification of substantially all of our products from Underwriters Laboratories (UL) or Intertek (ETL) and in Europe we seek, and to date have appropriately self certified substantially all of our products with Conformité Européenne (CE). Where appropriate in jurisdictions outside the United States and Europe, we seek to obtain other similar national or regional certifications for our products, such as Canadian Underwriters Laboratories (CUL) in Canada and Product Safety Electrical (PSE) in Japan. Although we believe that our broad knowledge and experience with electrical codes and safety standards have facilitated certification approvals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, that we will be able to maintain any such certifications for our existing products, especially since existing codes and standards were not created with our lighting products in mind. Moreover, although we are not aware of any effort to amend any existing certification standard or implement a new certification standard in a manner that would render us unable to maintain certification for our existing products or obtain certification for new products, our revenue might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 