Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Sonoco’s Business Conditions in foreign countries where the Company operates may reduce earnings. Sonoco has operations throughout North and South America, Europe, Australia and Asia, with facilities in 35 countries. In 2005, approximately 34.7% of consolidated sales came from operations and sales outside of the United States. Accordingly, revenues and income may be adversely affected by economic conditions, political situations, and changing laws, and regulations in those countries. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the Company’s earnings. As a result of operating globally, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. These exposures are monitored, and from time to time, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge a portion of forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies, foreign currency assets and liabilities or the net investment in foreign subsidiaries. Nonetheless, to the extent unhedged positions or hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating currencies could reduce the Company’s sales and net income. Financial performance is directly affected by exchange rates, because the results of operations and the assets and liabilities of the Company’s foreign operations, which are recorded in local currencies, are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The Company may encounter difficulties arising from integrating acquisitions, restructuring operations or closing or disposing of facilities. Sonoco has completed acquisitions, closed higher-cost facilities, sold non-core assets and otherwise restructured operations in an effort to improve cost competitiveness and profitability. Some of these activities are ongoing, and there is no guarantee that any such activities will not divert the attention of management or disrupt the ordinary operations, or those of the Company’s subsidiaries. Moreover, production capacity, or the actual amount of products produced, may be reduced as a result of these activities. Sonoco has made numerous acquisitions in recent years, and may actively seek new acquisitions that management believes will provide meaningful opportunities in the markets Sonoco serves. Acquired businesses may not achieve the expected levels of revenue, profit or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including, without limitation, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies, and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. While management believes that acquisitions will improve the Company’s competitiveness and profitability, no assurance can be given that acquisitions will be successful or accretive to earnings. The Company is subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could weaken operating results. Federal, state, provincial, foreign and local environmental requirements, particularly those relating to air and water quality, are a significant factor in the Company’s business and generally increase the costs of the Company’s operations. The Company may be found to have environmental liability for the costs of remediating soil or water that is, or was, contaminated by the Company or a third party at various sites which are now, or were previously, owned, used or operated by the Company. Legal proceedings may result in the imposition of fines or penalties, as well as mandated remediation programs that require substantial, and in some instances, unplanned capital expenditures. There also may be similar liability at sites with respect to which either the Company has received, or in the future may receive, notice that it may be a potentially responsible party and which are the subject of cleanup activity under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, analogous state laws and other laws concerning hazardous substance contamination. 9 SONOCO PRODUCTS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES The Company has incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, fines and penalties relating to environmental matters, and costs relating to the damage of natural resources, lost property values and toxic tort claims. The Company has made expenditures to comply with environmental regulations and expects to make additional expenditures in the future. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $16.8 million was reserved for environmental liabilities. However, additional expenditures could be incurred due to changes in law, or the discovery of new information, and those expenditures could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Raw materials price increases may reduce net income. Many of the raw materials used by the Company are commodities purchased from third parties. Principal examples are recovered paper, steel, aluminum and resin. Prices of these commodities are subject to substantial fluctuations that are beyond the Company’s control and can adversely affect profitability. Even though many of the Company’s long-term contracts with customers permit limited price adjustments to reflect increased raw material costs and prices may be increased in an effort to offset increases in raw materials costs, such adjustments may not occur quickly enough, or be sufficient to prevent a materially adverse effect on net income and cash flow. Energy price increases may reduce net income. The Company’s manufacturing operations require the use of substantial amounts of electricity and natural gas, which may be subject to significant price fluctuations as the result of changes in overall supply and demand. Energy usage is forecasted and monitored, and the Company may, from time-to-time, use commodity futures or swaps in an attempt to reduce the impact of energy price fluctuations. The Company cannot guarantee success in these efforts, and could suffer adverse effects to net income and cash flow should the Company be unable to pass higher energy costs through to its customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding the Company’s periodic or current 1934 Act reports. 