Item 1A. Risk factors Risk factors relating to Sonoco’s business The Company is subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could weaken operating results. Federal, state, provincial, foreign and local environmental requirements, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), and particularly those relating to air and water quality, are significant factors in the Company’s business and generally increase its costs of operations. The Company may be found to have environmental liability for the costs of remediating soil or water that is, or was, contaminated by the Company or a third party at various sites that are now, or were previously, owned, used or operated by the Company. Legal proceedings may result in the imposition of fines or penalties, as well as mandated remediation programs that require substantial, and in some instances, unplanned capital expenditures. The Company has incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, fines, penalties and legal costs relating to environmental matters, and costs relating to the damage of natural resources, lost property values and toxic tort claims. The Company has made expenditures to comply with environmental regulations and expects to make additional expenditures in the future. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $72.6 million was reserved for environmental liabilities. Such reserves are established when it is considered probable that the Company has some liability. In part because nearly all of the Company’s potential environmental liabilities are joint and severally shared with others, the Company’s maximum potential liability cannot be reasonably estimated. However, the Company’s actual liability in such cases may be substantially higher than the reserved amount. Additional charges could be incurred due to changes in law, or the discovery of new information, and those charges could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Changes to laws and regulations dealing with environmental issues, including climate change, are made or proposed with some frequency and some of the proposals, if adopted, might, directly or indirectly, result in a material reduction in the operating results of one or more of the Company’s operating units. General economic conditions in the United States may change, having a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Domestic sales accounted for approximately 63% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in 2011. Even with the Company’s diversification across various markets and customers, due to the nature of the Company’s products and services, general economic downturns can have an adverse impact on the Company’s reported results. Conditions in foreign countries where the Company operates may reduce earnings. The Company has operations throughout North and South America, Europe, Australia and Asia, with facilities in 34 countries. In 2011, approximately 37% of consolidated sales came from operations and sales outside of the United States. Accordingly, economic conditions, political situations, and changing laws and regulations in those countries may adversely affect revenues and income. Raw materials price increases may reduce net income. Most of the raw materials the Company uses are purchased from third parties. Principal examples are recovered paper, steel, aluminum and resin. Prices for these raw materials are subject to substantial fluctuations that are beyond the Company’s control and can adversely affect profitability. Many of the Company’s long-term contracts with customers permit limited price adjustments to reflect increased raw material costs. Although both contractual and non-contractual prices may be increased in an effort to offset increases in raw materials costs, such adjustments may not occur quickly enough, or be sufficient to prevent a materially adverse effect on net income and cash flow. The Company may encounter difficulties integrating acquisitions, restructuring operations or closing or disposing of facilities. The Company has made numerous acquisitions in recent years, and may actively seek new acquisitions that management believes will provide meaningful opportunities in the markets it serves. Acquired businesses may not achieve the expected levels of revenue, profit or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including, without limitation, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies, and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. While management believes that acquisitions will improve the Company’s competitiveness and profitability, no assurance can be given that acquisitions will be successful or accretive to earnings. If actual performance in an acquisition falls significantly short of the projected results, or the assessment of the relevant facts and circumstances changes, it is possible that a noncash impairment charge of any related goodwill would be required. The Company has closed higher-cost facilities, sold non-core assets and otherwise restructured operations in an effort to improve cost competitiveness and profitability. Some of these activities are ongoing, and there is no guarantee that any such activities will achieve the Company’s goals and not divert the attention of management or disrupt the ordinary operations of the Company. Moreover, production capacity, or the actual amount of products produced, may be reduced as a result of these activities. Energy price increases may reduce net income. Some of the Company’s manufacturing operations require the use of substantial amounts of electricity and natural gas, which may be subject to significant price increases as the result of changes in overall supply and demand. Energy usage is forecasted and monitored, and the Company may, from time to time, use commodity futures or swaps in an attempt to reduce the impact of energy price increases. The Company cannot guarantee success in these efforts, and could suffer adverse effects to net income and cash flow should the Company be unable to pass higher energy costs through to its customers. Changes in pension plan assets or liabilities may reduce net income and shareholders’ equity. The Company has an aggregate projected benefit obligation for its defined benefit plans of approximately $1.6 billion. The calculation of this obligation is sensitive to the underlying discount rate assumption. FORM 10-K Sonoco 2011 Annual Report 9 Table of Contents Reductions in the long-term yield of high-quality debt instruments would result in a higher projected benefit obligation and higher net periodic benefit cost. A higher projected benefit obligation may result in a change in funded status that significantly reduces shareholders’ equity. The Company has total assets of approximately $1.2 billion funding a portion of the projected benefit obligation. Decreases in fair value of these assets may result in higher net periodic benefit costs and changes in the funded status that significantly reduce shareholders’ equity. The Company may not be able to develop new products acceptable to the market. For many of the Company’s businesses, organic growth depends meaningfully on new product development. If new products acceptable to the Company’s customers are not developed in a timely fashion, its growth potential may be hindered. The Company may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates. If significant acquisition candidates that meet the Company’s specific criteria are not located, the Company’s potential for growth may be restricted. The Company, or its customers, may not be able to obtain necessary credit or, if so, on reasonable terms. The Company operates a $350 million commercial paper program, supported by a five-year bank credit facility of an equal amount committed by a syndicate of eight banks until October 2015. In the event that disruptions in global credit markets were to become so severe that the Company was unable to issue commercial paper, it has the contractual right to draw funds directly on the underlying bank credit facility. The Company believes that the lenders have the ability to meet their obligations under the facility. However, if these obligations are not met, the Company may be forced to seek more costly or cumbersome forms of credit. Should such credit be unavailable for an extended time, it would significantly affect the Company’s ability to operate its business and execute its plans. In addition, the Company’s customers may experience liquidity problems as a result of the current economic environment that could negatively affect the Company’s ability to collect receivables and maintain business relationships. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the Company’s earnings. As a result of operating globally, the Company is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. Generally, each of the Company’s foreign operations both produces and sells in its respective local currency, limiting the Company’s exposure to foreign currency transactions. The Company monitors its exposures and, from time to time, may use forward currency contracts to hedge certain forecasted currency transactions or foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. In addition to potential transaction losses, the Company’s reported results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected by exchange rates when the activities and balances of its foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments There are no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding the Company’s periodic or current 1934 Act reports. 