Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risks Our business is cyclical and significantly affected by changes in national and local economic, business and other conditions, most of which are beyond our control. These conditions include: • a favorable shareholder vote and the successful completion of the proposed merger of the Company announced January 18, 2008 that would result in the Company going private; • as a result of the Company not being in compliance with certain financial covenants under its credit agreement, our lenders have the right to exercise their remedies under the credit agreement in the event the merger agreement is terminated or not completed by June 30, 2008; • availability and affordability of mortgage financing for home buyers could be adversely affected by tighter lending standards and the recent volatility and disruptions in the secondary markets particularly with respect to sub-prime and other alternative forms of mortgage financing; • changes in federal lending programs, including the proposed elimination of down-payment assistance programs; • short and long term interest rates; • changes in governmental regulations; • employment levels and job growth; • availability and affordability of mortgage financing for home buyers; • availability and cost of building lots; • availability of materials (including lumber) and labor; • fluctuating costs of materials and labor; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • consumer confidence and housing demand; • variations in the supply and market pricing of existing home inventories; • competitive overbuilding; • changing demographics; • cost overruns; • changes in tax laws that may make home ownership more expensive or less attractive; • changes in local government fees; and • availability and cost of rental property and resale prices of existing homes. 9 Table of Contents In addition, domestic terrorist attacks and the threat or the involvement of the United States in international armed conflict may also adversely affect general economic conditions, consumer confidence and the homebuilding markets. The Company entered into a proposed merger agreement, subject to the approval of a majority of our shareholders, which would result in the company completing a going private transaction prior to June 30, 2008. The Company is currently not in compliance with certain financial covenants under the Credit Agreement and our lenders have also agreed to forbear exercising any of their rights under the Credit Agreement until the earlier of the termination of the merger agreement or June 30, 2008 in order to facilitate the completion of the merger. On January 18, 2008, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with Dominion Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation (“Parent”), and Dominion Merger Corporation, an Ohio corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (“Merger Sub”). Parent is owned and controlled by companies affiliated with Angelo Gordon & Co., L.P. and Silver Point Capital, L.P., who are, through certain affiliates, lenders to the Company pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and also hold warrants exercisable for the Company’s common shares. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent. Concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, BRC Properties Inc. (BRC) has entered into a commitment letter with Parent, pursuant to which BRC has committed to contribute its Company common shares to Parent immediately before the Merger in exchange for shares of common stock of Parent. BRC is a significant shareholder of the Company, owning approximately 46.2% of the Company’s outstanding common shares and is controlled by the Borror family. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding common share, without par value, of the Company, other than Common Shares held of record or beneficially owned by (i) Parent, (ii) Merger Sub, (iii) BRC, (iv) the Company or (v) any shareholders who are entitled to and who properly exercise and perfect dissenters’ rights under Ohio law, will be converted into the right to receive $0.65 per share in cash, without interest. The Board of Directors of the Company approved the Merger Agreement following the unanimous recommendation of a Special Committee comprised entirely of independent directors. The consummation of the Merger is subject, among other things, to the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the Company’s shareholders. BRC and certain members of the Borror family have, concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, entered into a voting agreement pursuant to which such parties have agreed to vote their shares in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement contains a “go shop” provision pursuant to which the Company has the right to solicit and engage in discussions and negotiations with respect to other acquisition proposals through March 3, 2008. After this period, the Company is not permitted to solicit other proposals and may not provide information or have discussions regarding alternative proposals, except in certain circumstances. The Merger Agreement also includes other representations, warranties and covenants that are customary for transactions of this type. In connection with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, on January 18, 2008, the Company and all of the participating lenders under the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 29, 2006 as amended (the “Credit Agreement”) entered into Amendment No. 7 to the Credit Agreement (the “Seventh Amendment”), pursuant to which the Company’s lenders agreed to forbear until the earlier of June 30, 2008 or termination of the Merger Agreement from exercising their rights and remedies under the Credit Agreement to facilitate the consummation of the Merger. The January 18, 2008 amendment also provides for a reduction in certain prepayment fees detailed in the Credit Agreement during the “go shop” period set forth in the Merger Agreement, as described above. We are not in compliance with certain financial covenants in our Credit Agreement at December 31, 2007. Our lenders have agreed to forbear until the earlier of June 30, 2008 or the termination of the 10 Table of Contents Merger Agreement exercising their rights and remedies under the agreement. If we do not complete the Merger and we are not able to obtain waivers of or amendments to the covenants, our lenders could exercise their remedies under the Credit Agreement. As a result of the lower than expected sales, reduced profit margins and impairment charges recorded during the last three quarters of 2007, we were not in compliance with (i) the minimum consolidated EBITDA, minimum consolidated gross profit and minimum net worth financial covenants as defined in the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007, (ii) the minimum free cash flow covenants as defined in the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007, and (iii) the maximum leverage ratio covenants as defined in the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2007. The failure to meet these covenants permits our lenders to exercise their remedies under our Credit Agreement. Our lenders have not elected to exercise their available remedies under the Credit Agreement other than the imposition of the default interest rate commencing June 30, 2007. On January 18, 2008 and February 21, 2008 the Credit Agreement was amended and the lenders agreed to forbear exercising their remedies under the agreement until the earlier of June 30, 2008 or the termination of the Merger Agreement in order to facilitate the consummation of the Merger. There can be no assurance that the Merger will be completed prior to June 30, 2008, or that if it is not completed, that the lenders will agree to any further modifications of the existing Credit Agreement. As a result of these conditions, the Company’s independent registered accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on the Company’s financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 expressing substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Interest rate increases, or changes in federal lending programs or changes in the mortgage market could adversely affect sales of our homes. Virtually all purchasers of our homes finance their purchase through third party lenders who offer conventional, and government-insured, and sub-prime mortgage financing. A material increase in mortgage interest rates or unfavorable changes to these lending programs would adversely affect the ability of prospective home buyers, particularly our targeted entry-level home buyers, to obtain mortgage financing. For instance, recent initiatives to tighten underwriting standards could make mortgage financing more difficult to obtain for some of our entry-level home buyers, as well as decrease future demand from these buyers. Additionally, we do not know the impact that the tightening of credit standards in the sub-prime market may have on other mortgage loans. Less than 5% of our closings during 2007 that utilized our mortgage joint venture, Centennial, were sub-prime loans. We also depend on the availability and cost of mortgage financing for buyers of the current homes owned by potential purchasers of our homes. Prior to purchasing our homes, many of our home buyers must sell their current homes, and these sales depend on the availability and cost of mortgage financing. In addition, because many of our home buyers use government-insured mortgage financing, a material reduction in the scope or funding of government-insured mortgage programs could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Changes in Federal lending programs, including the proposed elimination of down payment assistance programs, could adversely affect the ability of prospective purchasers, particularly entry level home buyers to obtain mortgage financing. In particular, a substantial number of our home buyers use down payment assistance programs, which allow home buyers to receive gift funds from non-profit corporations to be used as a down payment. In October 2007, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) published rules which would prohibit the use of gift fund programs in conjunction with government-insured mortgage loans. Prior to the effective date of the published rules, the United States District Court issued an injunction to delay the new rules. In addition, in 2006, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued a ruling that may result in the IRS challenging the tax exempt status of certain non-profit corporations that provide down payment assistance which are funded largely by homebuilders and sellers. The ruling may limit the ability of certain non-profit corporations to fund down payment assistance programs for government-insured mortgage loans. If, as a result of the IRS ruling, or regulatory or other action, certain of the gift fund programs that our customers utilize would no longer be available to them, we would expect to work to provide other financing alternatives, and seek out different down payment programs for our customers that meet HUD and IRS guidelines. There can be no assurance, however, that any such alternative programs would be as attractive to our 11 Table of Contents customers as the programs offered today and that our sales would not suffer. We currently are the subject of a purported class action lawsuit that challenges our participation in gift fund programs. We are significantly leveraged and depend on the availability of financing. We incur significant up-front expenditures for land acquisition, development and construction costs. We have traditionally financed these costs with borrowings, internally-generated funds and joint venture arrangements. We cannot be sure that continued financing will be available to us in the future, or that any financing available to us will be on favorable terms. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, will depend on our future operating performance and successful execution of our business strategy. The Company was advised by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. that it must demonstrate a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5,000,000 by March 17, 2008 and a minimum bid closing price of $1.00 by June 30, 2008 or the company shares will be delisted. While the Company expects to request delisting in connection with the Merger described, if the shares were delisted and the Merger was not completed, the ability of the Company to raise additional equity would be limited. During 2007, the value of the Company’s Common Stock dropped significantly, from a 52 week high of $6.05 per share to a 52 week low of $0.33. As the market price for the Company’s Common Stock declined, the Company received a notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (“NASDAQ”) on December 17, 2007 indicating that for the last 30 consecutive trading days, the Company’s Common Stock had not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5,000,000 as required for continued inclusion by Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(2). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(1), the Company was provided 90 calendar days, until March 17, 2008, to regain compliance by having its publicly held shares maintain a market value of $5,000,000 or greater for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. If compliance cannot be demonstrated by March 17, 2008, then NASDAQ will provide written notification to the Company that its securities will be delisted. On December 31, 2007, the Company received a second notice from the NASDAQ indicating that for the last 30 consecutive trading days, the bid price for the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), the Company was provided 180 calendar days, until June 30, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement. If, at any time before June 30, 2008, the bid price of the Company’s common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will provide written notification that it has achieved compliance with the Rule. If compliance with the Rule cannot be demonstrated by June 30, 2008, then NASDAQ will provide written notification to the Company that its securities will be delisted. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our geographic markets with national, regional and local homebuilders, some of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales resources than we do. We compete not only for home buyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. Competitive conditions may make it difficult for us to acquire land that is suitable for our development, cause us to lower our prices and cause our sales to decline. We may face competitive pressure to discount our homes, including competition with the existing home market. Such discounting could erode our gross profit margins. We also compete with the resale market for existing homes, which some home buyers may prefer over new homes. Additionally, there are many other national and regional homebuilders, many of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales resources than we do, that do not currently have a significant presence in our markets. A concerted effort by these homebuilders to enter or expand their current operations in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales. We have a significant investment in land that exposes us to asset valuation risk, including future losses on the sale of excess land and the potential for recognition of additional impairment reserves that could impact profitability. Our business strategy is to be the developer in substantially all of the communities in which we build homes. Therefore, our long-term financial success depends and will continue to depend on our ability to acquire land, adjust our strategy for purchasing land, address changing market conditions and develop 12 Table of Contents communities successfully. We commit substantial financial and managerial resources to acquire land and develop the streets, utility services and other infrastructure before any revenue is generated from the community. We may acquire and develop land upon which we ultimately cannot, or choose not to, build or sell homes. Because the market value of undeveloped land fluctuates, we may have to sell at a loss land that no longer meets our needs or which otherwise constitutes excess inventory. Once we have begun the development of a new community, it is difficult and, at times, impractical, to discontinue development activities. Thus, we may be forced to continue to incur costs associated with land development even if the demand for newly constructed homes decreases. In addition, declining sales volumes or profit margins as a result of lower demand may require that we record impairment reserves for communities where we commenced land development at a time of higher demand. Conversely, if there is a sudden increase in the demand for our homes, we may not be able to fully take advantage of the increased demand if we have not begun land development and acquisition activities on a sufficient number of communities. High foreclosure rates in communities where we build may adversely affect our sales results. The majority of buyers finance the purchase of their new home through the use of mortgage loans. These loans typically represent a large percentage of the value of the home and may be structured with lower interest rates and reduced payments in the initial years of the loan. If the borrower defaults on the loan, the home may be subject to foreclosure and resale at a below market price. Since it may require five years or more to sell all of the developed lots in one of our communities, our sales or pricing levels may be adversely impacted if we experience a high foreclosure rate in a community where we are actively marketing our homes. The outcome of lawsuits brought against the Company may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As discussed below under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” we are subject to a number of lawsuits, including purported class action suits against us and, in one case, certain of our current and former officers. There can be no assurance that any liability that may arise from any of these pending lawsuits will be covered, in whole or in part, by the insurance policies we currently maintain. These lawsuits could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from ordinary business operations, and any settlement of or judgment in one or more of these lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Unfavorable media reports regarding the Company may materially and adversely affect our sales. The foregoing litigation, as well as the foreclosure rates on our homes, were the subject of several unfavorable media reports in the Central Ohio market that began in September 2005 and continued during 2006 and 2007. Although we have not been able to quantify the impact of the unfavorable media reports, we believe that the unfavorable media reports have had a negative influence on our customers. Additional future unfavorable media exposure may result from the resolution of these matters and could result in prospective home buyers choosing not to consider our homes when making a purchase decision, thereby adversely affecting our sales, closings and overall financial condition. We may also incur additional legal, advertising and public relations costs in resolving these matters. Our debt agreements include Covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and specify certain financial performance criteria. Our lenders could declare a default. Our debt agreements impose restrictions on our operations and activities. Some of the more significant restrictions: • Limit the amount we may borrow under the bank Credit Agreement based upon borrowing base limitations; • Require us to maintain a minimum consolidated Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) covenant, calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to maintain a minimum free cash flow covenant calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio covenant; 13 Table of Contents • Require us to maintain a minimum gross profit covenant calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to not exceed the specified maximum amounts of land purchases calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to maintain a specified minimum net worth; • Limit our ability to dispose of assets outside the normal course of business; • Limit the amount of our uncommitted land holdings and unzoned land purchases; • Limit the amount that we may borrow outside of the bank Credit Agreement and the amount of contingent obligations that we can assume; • Restrict any investments in homebuilding operations in markets other than our current markets; • Limit speculative and model home inventory; • Limit annual operating lease rentals; • Prohibit the re-purchase of our common shares; and • Prohibit payment of cash dividends. Our breach of a financial covenant or other provision of our debt agreements would constitute a default, and would permit our lenders to pursue the remedies available to them, under these agreements. These remedies include terminating our ability to make any new borrowings, and accelerating the repayment of all existing borrowings, under the debt agreements. Our inability to comply with our financial covenants, obtain waivers for non-compliance or obtain alternative financing to replace our current debt agreements would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is currently not in compliance with certain financial covenants, however, our lenders have not elected to exercise their available remedies other than the imposition of the additional 2% default interest rate. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation which could cause delays, increase costs, and restrict or prohibit homebuilding activity in certain regions. We are subject to substantial local, state and Federal requirements concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. These requirements include local regulations, which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Particularly in the case of local political subdivisions, anti-growth sentiments can lead to ballot measures that can interfere with or impede our ability to develop land or build homes. Candidates for local office who favor restrictions on growth and development are being elected with greater frequency in certain communities in which we conduct business. Restrictive measures can also affect construction activities, including construction materials, which must be used in home construction, as well as sales activities and other dealings with home buyers. We also must obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Obtaining acceptable zoning and overcoming objections of neighborhood groups and citizen activists is becoming more difficult, time consuming and expensive. These issues may adversely affect us in the future. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and Federal requirements concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws, which apply to any given project, vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control. These laws may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. In an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments, we have a general practice of requiring environmental reports from qualified, independent professionals and resolution of identified environmental issues prior to purchasing land. However, it is possible that we may incur material costs relating to the removal of toxic wastes or other environmental matters affecting land we have acquired. 14 Table of Contents Building moratoria may result in periodic delays or may preclude us from developing certain projects. These moratoria generally result from insufficient water supplies or sewer facilities, delays in utility hookups, inadequate road capacity, environmental concerns, school system overcrowding or financial difficulties, or anti-growth sentiment within a specific market area or community. Time-limited moratoria or restrictions on zoning changes, building permit issuance and extensions of utilities in certain areas have been adopted by several communities in which we develop land and builds homes, and similar restrictive measures have been considered by other communities in which we conduct business. These moratoria can occur before or after we start our operations and without notice or recourse. We operate in a limited number of geographic areas. We conduct our operations only in Central Ohio, Louisville, Kentucky and Lexington, Kentucky. Our Credit Agreement prohibits us from expanding into new markets. Our lack of geographic diversity means that adverse general economic or weather conditions in one or more of these markets could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our success depends on our ability to manage our developed lot inventory and speculative home inventory. The availability of an adequate supply of developed lots in our communities may impact our sales and limit our ability to deliver completed homes. The supply and location of available land, zoning and density requirements, inflation in land prices and the carrying costs associated with inventory levels are factors that may limit our ability to maintain an adequate supply of developed lots. The delivery of new homes and the gross margins that we realize on the sale of homes could decline and impact our operating results to the extent that we are unable to manage our developed lot inventory to meet anticipated sales levels. In addition, we may have to sell at a loss developed lots that no longer meet our needs or which otherwise constitute excess inventory. We also commence construction of some inventory homes before we obtain sales contracts for those homes and we also increase our inventory when home buyers cancel contracts after we have started construction of their home. Most cancellations occur when a home buyer cannot qualify for financing or cannot sell an existing home. We may have to hold these unsold inventory homes for an indefinite time prior to a sale. In addition, because market prices fluctuate, we may have to sell inventory homes at a loss. Adverse weather conditions may prevent or delay the construction of homes and reduce the number of home sales. Poor weather conditions can hinder our construction and development activities, and thereby increase the cost of constructing our homes and delay the closing of our homes and our recognition of revenue from such closings. In addition, in cases of prolonged severe weather, potential home buyers may delay or forgo the purchase of a home. Delays in construction of our homes could cause mortgage commitments to expire. Delays in the construction of a home could cause the mortgage commitment to expire and could require us, if mortgage interest rates have increased, to pay significant amounts to the mortgage lender to extend the original mortgage interest rates. Our new product offerings may not be attractive to customers. We continue to introduce new home designs and new community concepts as part of our product offerings. There are significant risks that we may not accurately predict the tastes or preferences of potential home buyers. A failure to predict these tastes or preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales. The loss of certain key personnel could adversely effect our operations. The loss of the services or prolonged absence of Douglas Borror, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, of which there can be no assurance. Our operating results vary on a quarterly basis. Our business is significantly affected by changes in economic cycles, and our revenues and earnings (losses) vary with the level of general economic activity in the 15 Table of Contents markets where we build homes. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in revenues and reported earnings (losses) on a quarterly basis. Closing on a home usually occurs approximately three to six months after the date of the sales contract, however weather and other delays may cause the closing to take longer. We do not recognize any revenue on the sale of a home until the closing occurs. We are subject to warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. We provide warranties on our homes for periods as long as thirty years. In the event that we experience greater warranty claims than we anticipate, we could incur significant expenses which could affect future earnings. Litigation related to construction defects could adversely affect our business. Litigation related to construction defects has increased significantly in recent years. The homebuilding industry has experienced both an increase in the number of individual claims for construction defects, as well as increased costs of insuring against such claims. Our financial results are subject to inflation and other cost increases. We are not always able to reflect all cost increases in the prices of our homes because competitive pressures and other factors sometimes require us to maintain or discount those prices. While we attempt to maintain costs with subcontractors from the date a sales contract with a customer is accepted until the date construction is completed, we may incur unanticipated costs which cannot be passed on to the customer. Material or labor shortages can adversely affect our business. During periods of increased construction activity, the homebuilding industry has faced shortages in the availability of skilled labor. Waiting for skilled labor to become available may result in construction delays. The use of less skilled labor to satisfy a skilled labor shortage may cause quality standards to suffer. Increases in the demand for skilled labor also can result in increases in the cost of skilled labor. The principal raw materials used in the homebuilding industry are lumber, brick and concrete as well as plumbing and electrical supplies. While these materials are generally available from a variety of sources, they are subject to periodic price fluctuations. In particular, the homebuilding industry has experienced occasional lumber shortages which produced significant price increases. Because we may not be able to pass on to our customers price increases in raw materials or labor, future price increases in these items could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and earnings. Application of critical accounting policies requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that may impact our future financial results. In preparing our financial statements, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the annual and quarterly reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities. Our actual results could be different from these estimates and assumptions. Some of our more critical accounting policies include: • reserves to reduce our real estate inventories to net realizable values; • estimates for remaining construction costs for homes closed; • reserves for the estimated warranty cost of homes; • estimates of the costs to complete land development; • estimates of the annualized capitalization rate for indirect overhead, interest and other expenses; • estimates of self-insured worker’s compensation and medical claims; and • estimates of the annual effective tax rate in interim periods. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 