RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Due to our dependence on the global steel industry, fluctuations in the demand for steel could adversely affect our business. Sales prices and volumes in the seaborne iron ore market depend on the prevailing and expected level of demand for iron ore in the world steel industry. The world steel industry is cyclical. A number of factors, the most significant of these being the prevailing level of worldwide demand for steel products, influence the world steel industry. During periods of sluggish or declining regional or world economic growth, demand for steel products generally decreases, which usually leads to corresponding reductions in demand for iron ore. Driven primarily by strong demand from Chinese steel makers, together with a modest expansion in other markets, the global seaborne iron ore market experienced high demand and rising iron ore and pellet prices in 2005. We cannot guarantee how long that demand will remain at current high levels or the direction of future prices. Sustained declines in world contract prices or sales volumes for iron ore could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. 11 Table of Contents The mining industry is an intensely competitive industry, and we may have difficulty effectively competing with other mining companies in the future. Intense competition characterizes the worldwide iron ore industry. We compete with a number of large mining companies. Some of these competitors possess substantial iron ore mineral deposits at locations closer to our principal Asian and European customers. Competition from iron ore producers may result in our losing market share and revenues. Our aluminum, manganese ore, copper concentrate and other activities are also subject to intense competition and are subject to similar risks. Demand for iron ore and pellets in peak periods may outstrip our production capacity, rendering us unable to satisfy customer demand. Our ability to rapidly increase production capacity to satisfy increases in demand for iron ore is limited. In periods when customer demand exceeds our production capacity, we generally satisfy excess customer demand by reselling iron ore and pellets purchased from joint ventures or third parties. If we are unable to satisfy excess customer demand by purchasing from joint ventures or third parties, we may lose customers. Similarly, because it takes time to increase production capacity, we may fail to complete our iron ore expansion projects in time to take advantage of the current high levels of worldwide demand for iron ore. In addition, operating at or above full capacity may expose us to higher costs, including demurrage fees due to capacity restraints in our mines, railroads and ports. Adverse economic developments in our principal markets, especially China, could reduce demand for our products, leading to lower revenues and profitability. The world economy is the primary driver of demand in the global seaborne market for iron ore and pellets. In recent years, China has been the main driver of our sales increases. In 2005, 20.0% of our iron ore and pellet gross revenues were attributable to customers in China, and customers in China accounted for 15.0% of our total gross revenues. During the same period, 14.2% of our gross revenues were attributable to customers from Asian countries other than China and 28.4% were attributable to sales to European customers. A weakened global economy or a weakened economy in specific markets where we sell our products, such as China, could reduce demand, leading to lower revenues and profitability. Aluminum and copper are actively traded on world commodity exchanges and their prices are subject to significant fluctuations. Aluminum and copper are sold in an active world market and traded on commodity exchanges, such as the London Metal Exchange and the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). Prices for these metals are subject to wide fluctuations and are affected by many factors, including actual and expected global economic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the availability and cost of substitutes, inventory levels maintained by producers, investments by commodity funds and others, and actions of participants in the commodity markets. Prices for these metals are more volatile than iron ore and pellet prices because they respond more quickly to actual and expected changes in market conditions. A reduction of global demand for Brazilian steel and/or agriculture products could reduce the demand for our logistics services. The Brazilian agriculture and steel industries are currently the primary drivers of demand for our logistics services to customers. In 2005, approximately 78.6 % of our logistics revenues were attributable to these markets. A reduction in world demand for Brazilian steel and/or agriculture products could reduce demand for our logistics services and harm the profitability of our logistics business. Our reserve estimates may be materially different from mineral quantities that we may actually recover, our estimates of mine life may prove inaccurate and market price fluctuations and changes in operating and capital costs may render certain ore reserves or mineral deposits uneconomical to mine. Our reported ore reserves and mineral deposits are estimated quantities of ore and minerals that have the potential to be economically mined and processed under present and anticipated conditions to extract their mineral content. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and in projecting potential future rates of mineral production, including many factors beyond our control. 12 Table of Contents Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground deposits of minerals that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of different engineers may vary, and results of our mining and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may lead to revision of estimates. Reserve estimates and estimates of mine life may require revision based on actual production experience and other factors. For example, fluctuations in the market prices of ores and metals, reduced recovery rates or increased production costs due to inflation or other factors may render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and may ultimately result in a restatement of reserves. We may not be able to replenish our reserves, which could adversely affect our mining prospects. We engage in mineral exploration, which is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is nonproductive. Our exploration programs, which involve significant capital expenditures, may fail to result in the expansion or replacement of reserves depleted by current production. If we do not develop new reserves, we will not be able to sustain our current level of production beyond the remaining life of our existing mines. Even if we discover mineral deposits, we remain subject to drilling and production risks, which could adversely affect the mining process. Once mineral deposits are discovered, it can take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial time and expenditures are required to: • establish ore reserves through drilling; • determine appropriate mining and metallurgical processes for optimizing the recovery of metal contained in ore; • obtain environmental and other licenses; • construct mining, processing facilities and infra-structure required for greenfield properties; and • obtain the ore or extract the metals from the ore. If a project proves not to be economically feasible by the time we are able to exploit it, we may incur substantial write-offs. In addition, potential changes or complications involving metallurgical and other technological processes arising during the life of a project may result in cost overruns that may render the project not economically feasible. We may experience delays, higher than expected costs, difficulties in obtaining environmental permits and other obstacles when implementing our capital expenditure projects. We are investing heavily to further increase our production capacity, logistics capabilities and to expand the scope of minerals we produce. Our expansion and mining projects are subject to a number of risks that may make them less successful than anticipated, including: 13 Table of Contents • we may encounter delays or higher than expected costs in obtaining the necessary equipment or services to build and operate our projects; • we may fail to obtain or experience delays or higher than expected costs in obtaining the required environmental permits to build our projects; • changes in market conditions may make our projects less profitable than expected at the time we initiated work on the project; and • adverse mining conditions may delay and hamper our ability to produce the expected quantities of minerals. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, our growth prospects and profitability may suffer. We face rising extraction costs over time as reserves deplete. Reserves are gradually depleted in the ordinary course of a given mining operation. As mining progresses, distances to the primary crusher and to waste deposits become longer and pits become steeper. As a result, over time, we usually experience rising unit extraction costs with respect to each mine. Several of our mines have operated for long periods, and we will likely experience rising extraction costs per unit in the future at these operations. An increase in fuel costs may adversely affect our business. Our operations rely in part on oil and gas, which represented 10.1% of our cost of goods sold in 2005. Fuel costs are a major component of our total costs in our logistics and pellets businesses, and indirectly affect numerous other areas of our business, including our mining and aluminum-related businesses. An increase in oil and gas prices adversely affects margins in our logistics, mining, pellets and aluminum-related businesses. We are involved in ongoing antitrust proceedings that could result in divestitures, fines or other restrictions that could harm our business. We are currently involved in seven proceedings before the Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica, or CADE, which is the primary Brazilian antitrust regulator. Five of these proceedings involve post-transaction review of acquisition or joint venture transactions, which is required for nearly all of our acquisitions and joint ventures. The remaining two proceedings are administrative proceedings alleging that we have engaged in illegal anticompetitive conduct in connection with our logistics business. We intend to defend these claims vigorously, but cannot predict their outcome. If CADE were to find that we have engaged in anticompetitive conduct, it could order us to cease the conduct and/or to pay fines. CADE recently rendered its decision in connection with its post-transaction review of our acquisitions of Socoimex, Samitri, Ferteco, Belém and CAEMI, and the agreement to unwind the cross-shareholdings between us and Companhia Siderúrgica Nacional, or CSN. On August 10, 2005, CADE issued a decision approving these acquisitions, subject to certain conditions. Under the conditions set forth in CADE’s decision, we must either (i) fully waive our preemptive rights relating to the Casa de Pedra iron ore mine and restructure our equity stake in MRS Logística or (ii) sell all our assets that were previously owned by Ferteco Mineração S.A., a company we acquired in 2001 and consolidated in August 2003. For more information, see Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings. If we are required to implement the steps called for in CADE’s decision, our iron ore and logistics operations may be adversely affected. Our principal shareholder could have significant influence over our company. On April 30, 2006, Valepar owned 53.3% of our outstanding common stock and 32.3% of our total outstanding capital. For a description of the ownership of our shares, see Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—Principal Shareholder. As a result of its share ownership, Valepar can control the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval, except for the appointment of certain directors and certain members of our fiscal council. Further, the Brazilian government owned three golden shares of CVRD that give it limited veto powers over certain actions that we could otherwise take. For a detailed description of the veto powers granted to the Brazilian 14 Table of Contents government by virtue of its ownership of these golden shares, see Item 10. Additional Information—Common Shares and Preferred Shares—General. Many of our operations depend on joint ventures; our business could be adversely affected if our joint venture partners do not observe their commitments. We currently operate important parts of our pelletizing, electric energy, aluminum, bauxite, coal and steel businesses through joint ventures with other companies. Our forecasts and plans for these joint ventures assume that our joint venture partners will observe their obligations to make capital contributions, purchase products and, in some cases, provide managerial talent. If any of our joint venture partners fails to observe its commitments, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate in accordance with its business plans or we may have to increase the level of our investment to give effect to these plans. For more information on our joint ventures, see 