RISK FACTORS Risks relating to our business The global recession could lead to a significant reduction in our revenues, cash flow and profitability. The global economy, and in particular global industrial production, is the primary driver of demand for minerals and metals. Global industrial production has been trending downward since the second half of 2008, resulting in a significant and widespread contraction in demand for minerals and metals, including an unprecedented decline in global demand for iron ore, our main product. There is uncertainty about the depth and duration of the current global economic downturn and its continuing impact on the demand for minerals and metals. To avoid significant inventory accumulation, we have been reducing production of several products, which will have a negative impact on our cash generation and profitability. Slowing economic growth in China could have a negative impact on our revenues, cash flow and profitability. China has been the main driver of the global demand for minerals and metals over the last few years. In 2008, Chinese demand represented approximately 53% of global demand for seaborne iron ore, 29% of global demand for nickel, 34% of global demand for aluminum and 27% of global demand for copper. The percentage of our gross revenues attributable to sales to consumers in China was 17.4% in 2008. A contraction of China’s economic growth could result in lower demand for our products, leading to lower revenues, cash flow and profitability. Chinese economic growth has been decelerating sharply as a result of a tightening domestic credit market and slowing exports. The strong decline in credit growth from the last quarter of 2007 through the third quarter of 2008 significantly impeded growth in the real estate sector, one of the largest consumers of steel in China. Although the Chinese government is increasing expenditure on infrastructure and public housing, launching tax incentives, and taking measures to ease credit tightness, there is uncertainty about the extent and duration of the current growth deceleration. A decline in demand for steel would adversely affect our business. Demand for our most important products depends on global demand for steel. Iron ore and iron ore pellets, which together accounted for 57.3% of our 2008 gross revenues, are used to produce carbon steel. Nickel, which accounted for 15.5% of our 2008 gross revenues, is used mainly to produce stainless steel. Demand for steel depends heavily on global economic conditions, but it also depends on a variety of regional and sectoral factors. The prices of different steels and the performance of the global steel industry are highly cyclical and volatile, and these business cycles in the steel industry affect demand and prices for our products. In addition, vertical backward integration of the steel industry could reduce the global seaborne trade of iron ore. The global seaborne trade of iron ore could also suffer from competition from metallics, such as semi-finished steel and scrap. In certain cases, it may be more economical for steelmakers to charge more scrap in basic oxygen furnaces (“BOF”) and electric arc furnaces (“EAF”), instead of producing pig iron. Semi-finished products, such as billets and slabs, may also be available from fully-integrated steel mills at low cost, reducing overall demand for seaborne iron ore. From 2003 to 2007, growing worldwide demand for carbon steel led to strong demand and rising prices for iron ore and iron ore pellets. However, the acceleration of the global financial crisis and the slowdown in Chinese demand since the second half of 2008 have resulted in sharp cuts in global carbon steel output, negatively affecting demand for iron ore and iron ore pellets. Moreover, the global financial crisis has had a sharp impact on Europe and Brazil, our natural markets for iron ore and iron ore pellets. The European economy may recover more slowly than other regions, which would negatively affect the volume of our 6 Table of Contents shipments of iron ore and iron ore pellets to this region. A sustained decline in prices or sales volumes for iron ore and iron ore pellets would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. In response to high nickel prices, which reached record highs in the second quarter of 2007 as a result of high demand for stainless steel, producers and consumers of stainless steel started shifting from stainless steel with high nickel content (series 300) to stainless steels with either lower nickel content (series 200) or no nickel content (series 400). It is unclear whether this trend will continue or potentially reverse in the midst of lower nickel prices. Stainless steel production fell 2% in the first half of 2008, and declined 13% in the second half of 2008 relative to 2007, as a result of inventory de-stocking and the global financial crisis. A sustained decline in austenitic stainless steel production would have a material adverse effect on our revenues from nickel. The prices of nickel, aluminum and copper, which are actively traded on world commodity exchanges, are subject to significant volatility. Nickel, aluminum and copper are sold in an active global market and traded on commodity exchanges, such as the London Metal Exchange and the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices for these metals are subject to significant fluctuations and are affected by many factors, including actual and expected global macroeconomic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the availability and cost of substitutes, inventory, investments by commodity funds and others and actions of participants in the commodity markets. Prices for these metals are more volatile than contractual prices for products such as iron ore, iron ore pellets and metallurgical coal, because they respond more quickly to actual and expected changes in market conditions. Increased direct or indirect substitution of primary nickel could adversely affect our nickel business. Demand for primary nickel may be negatively affected by the direct substitution of primary nickel with other materials in current applications. Scrap nickel competes directly with primary nickel as a source of nickel for use in the production of stainless steel, and the choice between them is largely driven by their relative prices and availability. In 2008, the stainless steel scrap ratio is estimated to have remained relatively unchanged compared to 2007, at 49%. Nickel pig iron, a product developed by Chinese steel and alloy makers that utilizes low-grade lateritic nickel ores, competes with other nickel sources in the production of stainless steel. In 2008, nickel pig iron production declined approximately 17%, given high production costs and lower nickel prices. We may not be able to reduce our production volume in response to lower demand in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Due to the slowdown in the global economy beginning in the second half of 2008, demand for our products has declined sharply. We have been taking measures to adjust our production volume to the lower demand level, such as shutting down mines, slowing down plant production, and undertaking maintenance ahead of schedule. However, operating at significant idle capacity may expose us to higher unit production costs, because a significant portion of our cost structure is fixed in the short-term due to the high capital intensity of mining operations. In addition, there could be limits to cost cutting due to certain labor regulations or previous labor or government agreements. During periods of high demand, conversely, our ability to rapidly increase production capacity is limited. Regulatory, political, economic and social conditions in the countries in which we operate or have projects could adversely impact our business and the market price of our securities. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by regulatory, political, economic and social conditions in countries in which we have significant operations or projects, particularly Brazil, Canada, Indonesia, Australia, New Caledonia and Mozambique. 7 Table of Contents Our operations depend on authorizations from and concessions by governmental regulatory agencies of the countries in which we operate. For details about the authorizations and concessions upon which our operations activities depend, see 