Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risks We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”). This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains various “forward–looking statements” within the meaning of the PSLRA and other applicable securities laws. Such statements can be identified by the use of the forward-looking words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “hope” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections regarding future developments, operations or financial conditions, or state other forward-looking information. These forward-looking statements involve various important risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results for 2006 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Included among such important risks, uncertainties and other factors are the following: Our business is cyclical and significantly affected by changes in national and local economic, business and other conditions, most of which are beyond our control. These conditions include: • short and long term interest rates; • changes in governmental regulations; • employment levels and job growth; • availability and affordability of mortgage financing for home buyers; • availability and cost of building lots; • availability of materials (including lumber) and labor; 11 Table of Contents • fluctuating costs of materials and labor; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • consumer confidence and housing demand; • competitive overbuilding; • changing demographics; • cost overruns; • changes in tax laws; • changes in local government fees; and • availability and cost of rental property and resale prices of existing homes. In addition, domestic terrorist attacks and the threat or the involvement of the United States in international armed conflict may also adversely affect general economic conditions, consumer confidence and the homebuilding markets. We operate in a limited number of geographic areas. We conduct our operations only in Central Ohio, Louisville, Kentucky and Lexington, Kentucky. Our lack of geographic diversity means that adverse general economic or weather conditions in one or more of these markets could have a material adverse impact on our operations. The nature of the homebuilding process makes it difficult to quickly respond to rapid changes in housing demand. Once we have begun the development of a new community, it is difficult and, at times, impractical, to discontinue development activities. Thus, we may be forced to incur costs associated with land development which began at a time of high housing demand even if the demand for newly constructed homes later decreases. Conversely, if there is a sudden increase in the demand for our homes, we may not be able to fully take advantage of the increased demand if we have not begun land development and acquisition activities on a sufficient number of communities. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs could adversely affect sales of our homes. Virtually all purchasers of our homes finance their purchase through third party lenders who offer conventional and government-insured mortgage financing. A material increase in mortgage interest rates or unfavorable changes to these lending programs would adversely affect the ability of prospective home buyers, particularly our targeted entry-level home buyers, to obtain mortgage financing. We also depend on the availability and cost of mortgage financing for buyers of the current homes owned by potential purchasers of our homes. Prior to purchasing our homes, some of our home buyers must sell their current homes, and these sales depend on the availability and cost of mortgage financing. In addition, because many of our home buyers use government-insured mortgage financing, a material reduction in the scope or funding of government-insured mortgage programs could have a material adverse effect on our sales. In particular, a substantial number of our home buyers use down payment assistance programs, which allow home buyers to receive gift funds from non-profit corporations to be used as a down payment. At one time, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) proposed rules which would have prohibited the use of gift fund programs in conjunction with government-insured mortgage loans. HUD subsequently withdrew these proposed rules, but has 12 Table of Contents continued to increase its regulation of gift fund programs. We are the subject of two purported class action lawsuits that challenge our participation in these gift fund programs. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” If our use of gift fund programs would be prohibited or unfavorably changed, we would expect to offer, as we have in the past, a different type of down payment program. There can be no assurance, however, that any such replacement program would be as attractive to home buyers as the programs offered today and that our sales would not suffer. High foreclosure rates in communities where we build may adversely affect our sales results. The majority of buyers finance the purchase of their new home through the use of mortgage loans. These loans typically represent a large percentage of the value of the home and may be structured with lower interest rates and reduced payments in the initial years of the loan. If the borrower defaults on the loan, the home may be subject to foreclosure and resale at a below market price. Since it may require five years or more to sell all of the developed lots in one of our communities, our sales or pricing levels may be adversely impacted if we experience a high foreclosure rate in a community where we are actively marketing our homes. The outcome of lawsuits brought against the Company may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As discussed below under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” the Company is subject to a number of lawsuits, including purported class action suits against the Company and, in one case, certain current and former officers of the Company. There can be no assurance that any liability that may arise from any of these pending lawsuits will be covered, in whole or in part, by the insurance policies the Company currently maintains. These lawsuits could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from ordinary business operations, and any settlement of or judgment in one or more of these lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Pending regulatory audits and investigations could adversely affect our business. Our mortgage financing company, DHFS, is currently undergoing an audit by HUD. We have not been notified of either the preliminary or the final results of that audit. In the event that there are 13 Table of Contents audit findings that HUD determines to be significant deficiencies, HUD could request that DHFS provide indemnifications with respect to losses resulting from any loans associated with the findings. In addition, HUD could levy civil money penalties on DHFS or impose sanctions which could limit or deny the ability of DHFS to originate Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) insured loans. DHFS is also the subject of a review being conducted by the Ohio Department of Commerce Division of Financial Institutions which conducts examinations to determine compliance with the Ohio Mortgage Broker Act. The fieldwork portion of that examination was completed in December 2005. There has been no subsequent contact with the reviewer and DHFS continues to operate as a licensed broker in the State of Ohio. The issuance of findings that are not satisfactorily resolved by DHFS could result in revocation of our Ohio broker’s license. Certain customers who purchased homes from the Company during 2003 and obtained mortgage financing through DHFS have filed complaints with the Consumer Protection Section of the Ohio Attorney General’s Office. The complaints generally allege that these customers’ loans were converted from FHA loans to conventional loans without their approval, and that, as a direct result, these loans no longer have the assumability, loan mitigation or streamlined refinancing characteristics typical of FHA loans. Although the loans are not subject to FHA insurance, we believe that the lender has determined that those features are in fact available to the borrowers. We are cooperating with the Office of the Attorney General and are attempting to resolve these complaints to the satisfaction of the buyers. Certain of these customers also have filed a purported class action lawsuit against the Company. See Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings.” Galloway Ridge is a community that we developed in the Columbus, Ohio market. Our first home closing was in 1998 and we are still actively building homes in that community. In a local media story in September of 2005 describing the high loan foreclosure rate in Ohio, Galloway Ridge was referenced as an example of a community with declining property values and an above average default rate with respect to FHA loans. The Ohio Attorney General’s Office has requested certain documentation with respect to sales and mortgage transactions involving Galloway Ridge and we are cooperating fully with them. We are also currently working proactively with the residents of that community to improve the appearance and desirability of their community. While the Company is continuing in its efforts to respond to the foregoing audits and investigations and provide all information required, we cannot predict the outcome of the audits and investigations. There can be no assurance that the scope of any audit or investigation will not expand or that other regulatory agencies will not become involved. In addition, the findings in any audit or investigation could result in the institution of additional proceedings against the Company, its affiliates and/or its employees, officers or directors, which in turn could lead to the imposition of fines and other penalties, remedies and sanctions. These audits and investigations could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from ordinary business operations, and the outcome of, and costs associated with, the audits and investigations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Unfavorable media reports regarding the Company may materially and adversely affect our sales. The foregoing audits, investigations and litigation, as well as the foreclosure 14 Table of Contents rates on our homes, have been the subject of several unfavorable media reports in the Central Ohio market. Our sales levels in the last four months of 2005 were lower than in the previous year, which is consistent with declines in new home sales that have been reported both nationally and in the markets where we operate. Although we have not been able to quantify the impact of the unfavorable media reports, we have received anecdotal commentary from some prospective customers that the unfavorable media reports have had a negative influence on their consideration of our homes. Additional future unfavorable media exposure may result from the publication of findings or the resolution of these matters and could result in prospective home buyers choosing not to consider our homes when making a purchase decision, thereby adversely affecting our sales, closings and overall financial condition. We may also incur additional legal, advertising and public relations costs and material liabilities in resolving these matters. We are significantly leveraged and depend on the availability of financing. We incur significant up-front expenditures for land acquisition, development and construction costs. We have traditionally financed these costs with bank borrowings, internally-generated funds and joint venture arrangements. Although we have not in recent years experienced problems in obtaining financing, we cannot be sure that continued financing will be available to us in the future, or that any financing available to us will be on favorable terms. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, will depend on our future operating performance and successful execution of our business strategy. Covenants in our bank credit facility restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. Our bank credit facility imposes restrictions on our operations and activities. Some of the more significant restrictions: • limit the amount we may borrow under the bank credit facility based upon borrowing base limitations; • require us to maintain interest coverage, net worth and leverage ratios; • limit the amount of our uncommitted land holdings and unzoned land purchases; • limit the amount that we may borrow outside of the bank credit facility and the amount of contingent obligations that we can assume; • prohibit our investing in homebuilding operations in markets other than Central Ohio or Kentucky; • limit speculative and model home inventory; • limit leases; • prohibit the re-purchase of our common shares; and • prohibit payment of cash dividends. If we do not satisfy the terms of our bank credit facility, our lenders could declare a default and demand repayment. Our breach of a financial covenant or other provision of our bank credit facility would constitute a default, and would permit our lenders to pursue the remedies available to them, under the bank credit facility. These remedies include terminating our ability to make any new borrowings, and accelerating the repayment of all existing borrowings, under the bank credit facility. If our lenders declared a default, there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing to pay amounts owed under the bank credit facility and it is likely that we would have to consider seeking protection from our creditors under the federal bankruptcy laws. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation which could cause delays, increase costs, and restrict or prohibit homebuilding activity in certain regions. We are subject to substantial local, state and Federal requirements concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. These requirements include local regulations, which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Particularly in the case of local political subdivisions, anti-growth sentiments can lead to ballot measures that can interfere with or impede our ability to develop land or build homes. Candidates for local 15 Table of Contents office who favor restrictions on growth and development are being elected with greater frequency in certain communities in which the Company conducts business. Restrictive measures can also affect construction activities, including construction materials, which must be used in home construction, as well as sales activities and other dealings with home buyers. We also must obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Obtaining acceptable zoning and overcoming objections of neighborhood groups and citizen activists is becoming more difficult, time consuming and expensive. These issues may adversely affect the Company in the future. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and Federal requirements concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws, which apply to any given project, vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control. These laws may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. In an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments, we have a general practice of requiring environmental reports from qualified, independent professionals and resolution of identified environmental issues prior to purchasing land. However, it is possible that we may incur material liabilities relating to the removal of toxic wastes or other environmental matters affecting land we have acquired. Building moratoria may result in periodic delays or may preclude us from developing certain projects. These moratoria generally result from insufficient water supplies or sewer facilities, delays in utility hookups, inadequate road capacity, environmental concerns, school system overcrowding or financial difficulties, or anti-growth sentiment within a specific market area or community. Time-limited moratoria or restrictions on zoning changes, building permit issuance and extensions of utilities in certain areas have been adopted by several communities in which the Company develops land and builds homes, and similar restrictive measures have been considered by other communities in which the Company conducts business. These moratoria can occur before or after we start our operations and without notice or recourse. We are subject to federal and state regulations with respect to our mortgage services activities. There are various proposals at the state and federal levels to increase the regulation of mortgage lending and related activities. These proposals, if adopted, could increase our costs of doing business or make it more difficult for certain prospective customers to purchase our homes. Our success depends on the availability of undeveloped land that is suitable for our development. Our business strategy is to be the developer in substantially all of the communities in which we build homes. Therefore, our short and long-term financial success depends and will continue to depend on our ability to acquire land, adjust our strategy for purchasing land, address changing market conditions and develop communities successfully. We commit substantial financial and managerial resources to acquire land and develop the streets, utility services and other infrastructure before any revenue is generated from the community. We may acquire and develop land upon which we ultimately cannot, or choose not to, build or sell homes. Because the market value of undeveloped land fluctuates, we may have to sell at a loss land that no longer meets our needs or which otherwise constitutes excess inventory. 16 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to manage our developed lot inventory and speculative home inventory. The availability of an adequate supply of developed lots in our communities may impact our sales and limit our ability to deliver completed homes. The supply and location of available land, zoning and density requirements, inflation in land prices and the carrying costs associated with inventory levels are factors that may limit our ability to maintain an adequate supply of developed lots. In addition, there are covenants in our bank credit facility that limit the amount of uncommitted land and the value of developed unsold lots and land under development that we are permitted to maintain. The delivery of new homes and the gross margins that we realize on the sale of homes could decline and impact our operating results to the extent that we are unable to manage our developed lot inventory to meet anticipated sales levels. In addition, we may have to sell at a loss developed lots that no longer meet our needs or which otherwise constitute excess inventory. We also build some homes before we obtain non-cancelable sale contracts for those homes. We may have to hold these unsold inventory homes for an indefinite time prior to a sale. In addition, because market prices fluctuate, we may have to sell inventory homes at a loss. Adverse weather conditions may prevent or delay the construction of homes and reduce the number of home sales. Poor weather conditions can hinder our construction and development activities, and thereby increase the cost of constructing our homes and delay the closing of our homes and our recognition of revenue from such closings. In addition, in cases of prolonged severe weather, potential home buyers may delay or forgo the purchase of a home. Delays in construction of our homes could cause mortgage commitments to expire. Delays in the construction of a home could cause the mortgage commitment to expire and could require us, if mortgage interest rates have increased, to pay significant amounts to the mortgage lender to extend the original mortgage interest rates. Our new product offerings may not be attractive to customers. We continue to introduce new home designs and new community concepts as part of our product offerings. There are significant risks that we may not accurately predict the tastes or preferences of potential home buyers. A failure to predict these tastes or preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales. The loss of certain key personnel could adversely effect our operations. The loss of the services or prolonged absence of Douglas Borror, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, of which there can be no assurance. Our operating results vary on a quarterly basis. Our business is significantly affected by changes in economic cycles, and our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets where we build homes. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in revenues and reported earnings on a quarterly 17 Table of Contents basis. A significant percentage of our sales contracts historically have been executed during the first half of the year. Closing on a home usually occurs approximately three to six months after the date of the sales contract, however weather and other delays, may cause the closing to take longer. We do not recognize any revenue on the sale of a home until the closing occurs. As a result, we historically have experienced higher closings and revenues during the second half of the year. We are subject to warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. We provide warranties on our homes for periods as long as thirty years. In the event that we experience greater warranty claims than we anticipate, we could incur significant expenses which could affect future earnings. Litigation related to construction defects could adversely affect our business. Litigation related to construction defects has increased significantly in recent years. The homebuilding industry has experienced both an increase in the number of individual claims for construction defects, as well as increased costs of insuring against such claims. Our financial results are subject to inflation and other cost increases. We are not always able to reflect all cost increases in the prices of our homes because competitive pressures and other factors sometimes require us to maintain or discount those prices. While we attempt to maintain costs with subcontractors from the date a sales contract with a customer is accepted until the date construction is completed, we may incur unanticipated costs which cannot be passed on to the customer. Material or labor shortages can adversely affect our business. During periods of increased construction activity, the homebuilding industry has faced shortages in the availability of skilled labor. Waiting for skilled labor to become available may result in construction delays. The use of less skilled labor to satisfy a skilled labor shortage may cause quality standards to suffer. Increases in the demand for skilled labor also can result in increases in the cost of skilled labor. The principal raw materials used in the homebuilding industry are lumber, brick and concrete as well as plumbing and electrical supplies. While these materials are generally available from a variety of sources, they are subject to periodic price fluctuations. In particular, the homebuilding industry has experienced occasional lumber shortages which produced significant price increases. Because we may not be able to pass on to our customers price increases in raw materials or labor, future price increases in these items could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and earnings. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases, state income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax laws and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as has been discussed recently, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. 18 Table of Contents The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our geographic markets with national, regional and local homebuilders, some of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales resources than we do. We compete not only for home buyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. Competitive conditions may make it difficult for us to acquire land that is suitable for our development, cause us to lower our prices and cause our sales to decline. We may face a competitive pressure to discount our homes, which discounting could erode our margins. We also compete with the resale market for existing homes, which some home buyers may prefer over new homes. Additionally, there are many other national and regional homebuilders, many of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales resources than we do, that do not currently have a significant presence in our markets. A concerted effort by these homebuilders to enter or expand their current operations in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Application of critical accounting policies requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that may impact our future financial results. In preparing our financial statements, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the annual and quarterly reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities. Our actual results could be different from these estimates and assumptions. Some of our more critical accounting policies include: • reserves to reduce our real estate inventories to net realizable values; • estimates for remaining construction costs for homes closed; • reserves for the estimated warranty cost of homes; • estimates of the costs to complete land development; • estimates of the annualized capitalization rate for indirect overhead, interest and other expenses; • estimates of self-insured worker’s compensation and medical claims; and • estimates of the annual effective tax rate in interim periods. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 