ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report before you decide to invest in our common stock. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business objective, plan of operation and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you invested in our common stock. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business plan. In addition to other information included in this Annual Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business and future prospects. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS THE COMPANY HAS A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY AND VERY LIMITED RESOURCES. Since emerging from bankruptcy, the Company has had no revenues from operations. Investors will have no basis upon which to evaluate the Company’s ability to achieve the Company’s business objective, until it negotiates and implements agreements with NOK-BONG, 3Soft and others which will turn it into an operating energy sector company. The Company will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the implantation of the agreements entered into with NOK-BONG, 3Soft and others. Since the Company selected as its target business the energy sector, it must now compete with some of the largest, best managed and best capitalized corporations in the world. Before we identified the energy sector as our target business in early 2008, there was no basis for investors to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which the Company might ultimately operate or the target business which the Company might ultimately acquire. Now that our target business has been determined, we must decide how we can best use our strategic relationships with NOK-BONG and 3Soft to create an operating company with strategic advantages in narrow markets. There can be no assurance that this strategy can be successfully implemented or that it will benefit stockholders or prove to be more favorable to stockholders than had we remained a shell company. In January 2008, the Company issued 21,334,000 shares of its common stock and 1,000,000 shares of its Series B Preferred Stock in connection with the events described below under “Subsequent Events”, which issuances created substantial dilution to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 495,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. As a result of the transactions (the “January Transactions”) described under the caption “Subsequent Events”, we issued 20,000,000 shares of our common stock to NOK-BONG, 1,334,000 shares of our common stock to 3Soft and 1,000,000 of our Series B Preferred Stock to Hirsch. Dependence on key personnel We are dependent upon the continued services of W. Benjamin Garst, Jr.. To the extent that his services become unavailable, the Company will be required to obtain other qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that it will be able to recruit and hire qualified persons upon acceptable terms. Our officer and director may allocate his time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in his determination as to how much time to devote to the Company’s affairs. This could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to implement its decision to become an operating company in the energy sector. 8 Our officer and director is not required to commit his full time to the Company’s affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating his time between the Company’s business and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of agreements that would require such full time attention. Our officer and director is engaged in several other business endeavors and is not obligated to contribute any specific number of his hours per week to the Company’s affairs. If his other business affairs require him to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit his ability to devote time to the Company’s affairs and could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to become an operating company. Our present plans are to limit the Company’s activities to the energy sector, which will cause us to be solely dependent on such single business and a limited number of products or services. We believe that we have situated the Company to become an operating company in limited segments of the energy sector - the transportation of ethanol and other alternate fuels by ship and the sale and marketing of solar power products manufactured by 3Soft and others. Accordingly, the prospects for the Company’s success will be: ● solely dependent upon the performance of a single operating business, or ● dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike many of our prospective competitors. The Company has limited resources and there is significant competition in the target market we intend to enter. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to the Company’s, including ship builders, ship operators, solar panel manufacturers, solar product fabricators, solar product resellers and other companies that compete in this segment as a part of their business. Many of these entities are well established, have extensive experience, possess greater technical, human and other resources than the Company does and the Company’s financial resources are limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. The Company may be unable to obtain the additional financing that will be required to implement its business strategy. We believe that the proceeds remaining from the sale of the shares to 3Soft will not be sufficient to implement our business strategy. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable on terms we deem to be acceptable, we may be unable to become an operating business despite the strategic relationships we created at a cost of substantial dilution to our stockholders. The failure to secure adequate additional financing could also have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of our target business. Neither Management nor our significant stockholders are required to provide any financing to us. Additional financing requirements associated with reporting obligations under the Exchange Act The Company has no revenues and is dependent upon the willingness of the Company’s Management or affiliated parties to fund the costs associated with the reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, other administrative costs associated with the Company’s corporate existence and expenses related to the Company’s business objective. The Company is not likely to generate any revenues until it consummates additional agreements with NOK-BONG, 3Soft and others. The Company anticipates that it will have access to sufficient financial resources to continue to pay accounting and other professional fees and other miscellaneous expenses that may be required until the Company can generate positive cash flow from operations. In the event that the Company’s available financial resources from its significant stockholders prove to be insufficient for the purpose of achieving its business objective, the Company will be required to seek additional financing. The Company’s failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s stockholders. The Company does not have any arrangements with any bank or financial institution to secure additional financing and there can be no assurance that any such arrangement would be available on terms acceptable and in the Company’s best interests. The Company does not have any written agreement with Management or its significant stockholders to provide funds for the Company’s operating expenses. Hirsch has71.6% of the voting power and thus can control any action requiring stockholder vote. Because of its ownership of 30,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, 1,000,000 shares of Series B Preferred stock and 278,231 shares of common stock, all of which vote together as a single class on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, and because each share of Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to 10 votes per share and each share of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to 100 votes per share, Hirsch has 100,578,231 of the 132,165,767 total outstanding votes entitled to be cast on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, permitting Hirsch to elect all of our directors and to approve any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. 9 Broad discretion of Management Any person who invests in our common stock will do so dependent on the broad discretion and judgment of Management in connection with the implementation of the our business strategy. There can be no assurance that determinations made by Management will permit us to achieve the Company’s business objectives. If the Company is deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate our business objective. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we would be: ● restricted in the nature of our investments; and ● restricted in the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to consummate our business strategy. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: ● registration as an investment company; ● adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and ● reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that the Company’s is subject it to the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company currently may be deemed to have no “Independent Director”, actions taken and expenses incurred by Management on behalf of the Company will generally not be subject to “Independent Review”. Management may receive compensation and reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with activities on the Company’s behalf. There is no limit on the amount of these out-of-pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of director, which presently consists of two directors who may seek reimbursement. If our directors are not deemed “independent,” they will generally not have the benefit of an independent director examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Although the Company believes that all actions taken by our directors on the Company’s behalf will be in the Company’s best interests, the Company cannot assure the investors that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in the Company’s best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and plan of operation and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. The Company’s majority stockholder has filed an Information Statement with the SEC and it has been mailed to all shareholders of record as of April 7, 2009. The majority shareholder has removed Mr. Arthur Martinez and added two directors, both of which should be independent, Ms. Sun Kim and Mr. Alex Lucas, effective May 17, 2009. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. Further, the limited market for our shares will make our price more volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock. The public market for our common stock has been very volatile. Since January 1, 2007 to May 8, 2009, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $1.74 to $0.12 (See “Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters” on page 12 of this Annual Report). Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. The last reported sales price for our common stock on May 5, 2009 was $1.25 per share. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock. The Company’s shares of common stock are subject to quotation on the OTCBB, which limits the liquidity and price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s shares of common stock are subject to quotation on the OTCBB. Quotation of the Company’s securities on the OTCBB limits the liquidity and price of the Company’s common stock more than if the Company’s shares of common stock were listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. There is currently only a limited trading market in the Company’s common stock. In the event that an active trading market commences, there can be no assurance as to the market price of the Company’s shares of common stock, whether any trading market will provide liquidity to investors, or whether any trading market will be sustained. 10 Our common stock is subject to the Penny Stock Rules of the SEC and the trading market in our common stock is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: ● that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and ● the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: ● obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and ● make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: ● sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and ● that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. State blue sky registration; potential limitations on resale of the Company’s common stock The holders of the Company’s shares of common stock registered under the Exchange Act and those persons who desire to purchase them in any trading market that may develop in the future, should be aware that there may be state blue-sky law restrictions upon the ability of investors to resell the Company’s securities. Accordingly, investors should consider the secondary market for the Registrant’s securities to be limited. It is our intention during 2009 to seek coverage and publication of information regarding the Company in an accepted publication manual which permits a manual exemption. The manual exemption permits a security to be distributed in a particular state without being registered if the Registrant issuing the security has a listing for that security in a securities manual recognized by the state. However, it is not enough for the security to be listed in a recognized manual. The listing entry must contain (1) the names of issuers, officers, and directors, (2) an issuer’s balance sheet, and (3) a profit and loss statement for either the fiscal year preceding the balance sheet or for the most recent fiscal year of operations. Furthermore, the manual exemption is a non-issuer exemption restricted to secondary trading transactions, making it unavailable for issuers selling newly issued securities. Most of the accepted manuals are those published by Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Service, Fitch’s Investment Service, and Best’s Insurance Reports, and many states expressly recognize these manuals. A smaller number of states declare that they “recognize securities manuals” but do not specify the recognized manuals. The following states do not have any provisions and therefore do not expressly recognize the manual exemption: Alabama, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Montana, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont and Wisconsin. Dividends unlikely The Company does not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future because it has no revenues or cash resources. The payment of dividends will be contingent upon the Company’s future revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and overall financial conditions. The payment of any future dividends will be within the discretion of the Company’s board of directors as then constituted. Management expects to retain any earnings for use in its business operations and, accordingly, we do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On December 16, 2008, the Company received a letter from the SEC regarding the 2007 10-KSB. The Company has not yet responded to the SEC comments. ITEM 