Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risks Our business is cyclical and significantly affected by changes in national and local economic, business and other conditions, most of which are beyond our control. These conditions include: • short and long term interest rates; • changes in governmental regulations; • employment levels and job growth; • availability and affordability of mortgage financing for home buyers; • availability and cost of building lots; • availability of materials (including lumber) and labor; • fluctuating costs of materials and labor; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • consumer confidence and housing demand; • variations in the supply and market pricing of existing home inventories; • competitive overbuilding; • changing demographics; • cost overruns; • changes in tax laws that may make home ownership more expensive or less attractive; • changes in local government fees; and • availability and cost of rental property and resale prices of existing homes. In addition, domestic terrorist attacks and the threat or the involvement of the United States in international armed conflict may also adversely affect general economic conditions, consumer confidence and the homebuilding markets. We are significantly leveraged and depend on the availability of financing. We incur significant up-front expenditures for land acquisition, development and construction costs. We have traditionally financed these costs with borrowings, internally-generated funds and joint venture arrangements. We cannot be sure that continued financing will be available to us in the future, or that any financing available to us will be on favorable terms. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, will depend on our future operating performance and successful execution of our business strategy. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our geographic markets with national, regional and local homebuilders, some of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales resources than we do. We compete not only for home buyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. Competitive conditions may make it difficult for us to acquire land that is suitable for our development, cause us to lower our prices and cause our sales to decline. We may face competitive pressure to discount our homes, including competition with the existing home market. Such discounting could erode our gross profit margins. We also compete with the resale market for existing homes, which some home buyers may prefer over new homes. Additionally, there are many other national and regional homebuilders, many of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales resources than we do, that do not currently have a significant presence in our markets. A concerted effort by these homebuilders to enter or expand their current operations in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales. 11 Table of Contents We have a significant investment in land that exposes us to asset valuation risk, including future losses on the sale of excess land and the potential for recognition of additional impairment reserves that could impact profitability. Our business strategy is to be the developer in substantially all of the communities in which we build homes. Therefore, our long-term financial success depends and will continue to depend on our ability to acquire land, adjust our strategy for purchasing land, address changing market conditions and develop communities successfully. We commit substantial financial and managerial resources to acquire land and develop the streets, utility services and other infrastructure before any revenue is generated from the community. We may acquire and develop land upon which we ultimately cannot, or choose not to, build or sell homes. Because the market value of undeveloped land fluctuates, we may have to sell at a loss land that no longer meets our needs or which otherwise constitutes excess inventory. Once we have begun the development of a new community, it is difficult and, at times, impractical, to discontinue development activities. Thus, we may be forced to continue to incur costs associated with land development even if the demand for newly constructed homes decreases. In addition, declining sales volumes or profit margins as a result of lower demand may require that we record impairment reserves for communities where we commenced land development at a time of higher demand. Conversely, if there is a sudden increase in the demand for our homes, we may not be able to fully take advantage of the increased demand if we have not begun land development and acquisition activities on a sufficient number of communities. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs could adversely affect sales of our homes. Virtually all purchasers of our homes finance their purchase through third party lenders who offer conventional and government-insured mortgage financing. A material increase in mortgage interest rates or unfavorable changes to these lending programs would adversely affect the ability of prospective home buyers, particularly our targeted entry-level home buyers, to obtain mortgage financing. We also depend on the availability and cost of mortgage financing for buyers of the current homes owned by potential purchasers of our homes. Prior to purchasing our homes, some of our home buyers must sell their current homes, and these sales depend on the availability and cost of mortgage financing. In addition, because many of our home buyers use government-insured mortgage financing, a material reduction in the scope or funding of government-insured mortgage programs could have a material adverse effect on our sales. In particular, a substantial number of our home buyers use down payment assistance programs, which allow home buyers to receive gift funds from non-profit corporations to be used as a down payment. At one time, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) proposed rules which would have prohibited the use of gift fund programs in conjunction with government-insured mortgage loans. HUD subsequently withdrew these proposed rules, but has continued to increase its regulation of gift fund programs. Recently, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued a ruling that may result in the IRS challenging the tax exempt status of certain non-profit corporations that provide down payment assistance which are funded largely by 12 Table of Contents homebuilders and sellers. The ruling may limit the ability of certain non-profit corporations to fund down payment assistance programs for government-insured mortgage loans. If, as a result of the IRS ruling, or regulatory or other action, certain of the gift fund programs that our customers utilize would no longer be available to them, we would expect to work to provide other financing alternatives, and seek out different down payment programs for our customers that meet HUD and IRS guidelines. There can be no assurance, however, that any such alternative programs would be as attractive to our customers as the programs offered today and that our sales would not suffer. We currently are the subject of two purported class action lawsuits that challenge our participation in gift fund programs. High foreclosure rates in communities where we build may adversely affect our sales results. The majority of buyers finance the purchase of their new home through the use of mortgage loans. These loans typically represent a large percentage of the value of the home and may be structured with lower interest rates and reduced payments in the initial years of the loan. If the borrower defaults on the loan, the home may be subject to foreclosure and resale at a below market price. Since it may require five years or more to sell all of the developed lots in one of our communities, our sales or pricing levels may be adversely impacted if we experience a high foreclosure rate in a community where we are actively marketing our homes. The outcome of lawsuits brought against the Company may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As discussed below under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” the Company is subject to a number of lawsuits, including purported class action suits against the Company and, in one case, certain current and former officers of the Company. There can be no assurance that any liability that may arise from any of these pending lawsuits will be covered, in whole or in part, by the insurance policies the Company currently maintains. These lawsuits could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from ordinary business operations, and any settlement of or judgment in one or more of these lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Unfavorable media reports regarding the Company may materially and adversely affect our sales. The foregoing litigation, as well as the foreclosure rates on our homes, were the subject of several unfavorable media reports in the Central Ohio market that began in September 2005 and continued during 2006. Although we have not been able to quantify the impact of the unfavorable media reports, we believe that the unfavorable media reports have had a negative influence on our customers. Additional future unfavorable media exposure may result from the resolution of these matters and could result in prospective home buyers choosing not to consider our homes when making a purchase decision, thereby adversely affecting our sales, closings and overall financial condition. We may also incur additional legal, advertising and public relations costs and material liabilities in resolving these matters. 13 Table of Contents If we do not satisfy the terms of our debt agreements which include Covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and specify certain financial performance criteria, our lenders could declare a default Our debt agreements impose restrictions on our operations and activities. Some of the more significant restrictions: • Limit the amount we may borrow under the bank credit facility based upon borrowing base limitations; • Require us to maintain a minimum consolidated Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) covenant, calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to maintain a minimum free cash flow covenant calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio covenant; • Require us to maintain a minimum gross profit covenant calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to not exceed the specified maximum amounts of land purchases calculated quarterly on a trailing 12 month basis; • Require us to maintain a specified minimum net worth; • Limit our ability to dispose of assets outside the normal course of business; • Limit the amount of our uncommitted land holdings and unzoned land purchases; • Limit the amount that we may borrow outside of the bank credit facility and the amount of contingent obligations that we can assume; • Restrict any investments in homebuilding operations in markets other than our current markets; • Limit speculative and model home inventory; • Limit annual operating lease rentals to $5 million; • Prohibit the re-purchase of our common shares; and • Prohibit payment of cash dividends. Our breach of a financial covenant or other provision of our debt agreements would constitute a default, and would permit our lenders to pursue the remedies available to them, under these agreements. These remedies include terminating our ability to make any new borrowings, and accelerating the repayment of all existing borrowings, under the debt agreements. The inability of the Company to comply with its financial covenants, obtain waivers for non-compliance or obtain alternative financing to replace the current debt agreements would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation which could cause delays, increase costs, and restrict or prohibit homebuilding activity in certain regions. We are subject to substantial local, state and Federal requirements concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. These requirements include local regulations, which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Particularly in the case of local political subdivisions, anti-growth sentiments can lead to ballot measures that can interfere with or impede our ability to develop land or build homes. Candidates for local 14 Table of Contents office who favor restrictions on growth and development are being elected with greater frequency in certain communities in which the Company conducts business. Restrictive measures can also affect construction activities, including construction materials, which must be used in home construction, as well as sales activities and other dealings with home buyers. We also must obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Obtaining acceptable zoning and overcoming objections of neighborhood groups and citizen activists is becoming more difficult, time consuming and expensive. These issues may adversely affect the Company in the future. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and Federal requirements concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws, which apply to any given project, vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control. These laws may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. In an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments, we have a general practice of requiring environmental reports from qualified, independent professionals and resolution of identified environmental issues prior to purchasing land. However, it is possible that we may incur material liabilities relating to the removal of toxic wastes or other environmental matters affecting land we have acquired. Building moratoria may result in periodic delays or may preclude us from developing certain projects. These moratoria generally result from insufficient water supplies or sewer facilities, delays in utility hookups, inadequate road capacity, environmental concerns, school system overcrowding or financial difficulties, or anti-growth sentiment within a specific market area or community. Time-limited moratoria or restrictions on zoning changes, building permit issuance and extensions of utilities in certain areas have been adopted by several communities in which the Company develops land and builds homes, and similar restrictive measures have been considered by other communities in which the Company conducts business. These moratoria can occur before or after we start our operations and without notice or recourse. We operate in a limited number of geographic areas. We conduct our operations only in Central Ohio, Louisville, Kentucky and Lexington, Kentucky. Our credit facility prohibits us from expanding into new markets. Our lack of geographic diversity means that adverse general economic or weather conditions in one or more of these markets could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our success depends on our ability to manage our developed lot inventory and speculative home inventory. The availability of an adequate supply of developed lots in our communities may impact our sales and limit our ability to deliver completed homes. The supply and location of available land, zoning and density requirements, inflation in land prices and the carrying costs associated with inventory levels are factors that may limit our ability to maintain an adequate supply of developed lots. The delivery of new homes and the gross margins that we realize on the sale of homes could decline and impact our operating results to the extent that we are unable to manage our developed lot inventory to meet anticipated sales levels. In addition, we may have to sell at a loss developed lots that no longer meet our needs or which otherwise constitute excess inventory. 15 Table of Contents We also commence construction of some inventory homes before we obtain sales contracts for those homes and we also increase our inventory when home buyers cancel contracts after we have started construction of their home. Most cancellations occur when a home buyer cannot qualify for financing or cannot sell an existing home. We may have to hold these unsold inventory homes for an indefinite time prior to a sale. In addition, because market prices fluctuate, we may have to sell inventory homes at a loss. Adverse weather conditions may prevent or delay the construction of homes and reduce the number of home sales. Poor weather conditions can hinder our construction and development activities, and thereby increase the cost of constructing our homes and delay the closing of our homes and our recognition of revenue from such closings. In addition, in cases of prolonged severe weather, potential home buyers may delay or forgo the purchase of a home. Delays in construction of our homes could cause mortgage commitments to expire. Delays in the construction of a home could cause the mortgage commitment to expire and could require us, if mortgage interest rates have increased, to pay significant amounts to the mortgage lender to extend the original mortgage interest rates. Our new product offerings may not be attractive to customers. We continue to introduce new home designs and new community concepts as part of our product offerings. There are significant risks that we may not accurately predict the tastes or preferences of potential home buyers. A failure to predict these tastes or preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales. The loss of certain key personnel could adversely effect our operations. The loss of the services or prolonged absence of Douglas Borror, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, of which there can be no assurance. Our operating results vary on a quarterly basis. Our business is significantly affected by changes in economic cycles, and our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets where we build homes. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in revenues and reported earnings on a quarterly basis. Closing on a home usually occurs approximately three to six months after the date of the sales contract, however weather and other delays may cause the closing to take longer. We do not recognize any revenue on the sale of a home until the closing occurs. We are subject to warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. We provide warranties on our homes for periods as long as thirty years. In the event that we experience greater warranty claims than we anticipate, we could incur significant expenses which could affect future earnings. 16 Table of Contents Litigation related to construction defects could adversely affect our business. Litigation related to construction defects has increased significantly in recent years. The homebuilding industry has experienced both an increase in the number of individual claims for construction defects, as well as increased costs of insuring against such claims. Our financial results are subject to inflation and other cost increases. We are not always able to reflect all cost increases in the prices of our homes because competitive pressures and other factors sometimes require us to maintain or discount those prices. While we attempt to maintain costs with subcontractors from the date a sales contract with a customer is accepted until the date construction is completed, we may incur unanticipated costs which cannot be passed on to the customer. Material or labor shortages can adversely affect our business. During periods of increased construction activity, the homebuilding industry has faced shortages in the availability of skilled labor. Waiting for skilled labor to become available may result in construction delays. The use of less skilled labor to satisfy a skilled labor shortage may cause quality standards to suffer. Increases in the demand for skilled labor also can result in increases in the cost of skilled labor. The principal raw materials used in the homebuilding industry are lumber, brick and concrete as well as plumbing and electrical supplies. While these materials are generally available from a variety of sources, they are subject to periodic price fluctuations. In particular, the homebuilding industry has experienced occasional lumber shortages which produced significant price increases. Because we may not be able to pass on to our customers price increases in raw materials or labor, future price increases in these items could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and earnings. Application of critical accounting policies requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that may impact our future financial results. In preparing our financial statements, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the annual and quarterly reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities. Our actual results could be different from these estimates and assumptions. Some of our more critical accounting policies include: • reserves to reduce our real estate inventories to net realizable values; • estimates for remaining construction costs for homes closed; • reserves for the estimated warranty cost of homes; • estimates of the costs to complete land development; • estimates of the annualized capitalization rate for indirect overhead, interest and other expenses; • estimates of self-insured worker’s compensation and medical claims; and • estimates of the annual effective tax rate in interim periods. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 