Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not be successful in the implementation of our business strategy or our business strategy may not be successful, either of which will impede our growth and operating results. Our business strategy emphasizes expansion through multiple channels of distribution. Our ability to implement this business strategy depends on our ability to: • market our products on a national scale and over the internet; • enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with third party retailers and other potential distributors of our coffee; • increase our brand recognition on a national scale; • identify and lease strategic locations suitable for new stores; and • manage growth in administrative overhead and distribution costs likely to result from the planned expansion of our retail and non-retail distribution channels. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy or whether our business strategy will be successful. Our revenue may be adversely affected if we fail to implement our business strategy or if we divert resources to a business strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. Because our business is highly dependent on a single product, specialty coffee, if the demand for specialty coffee decreases, our business could suffer. Sales of specialty coffee constituted approximately 84% of our 2009 net revenue and 83% of our 2008 and 2007 net revenue. Demand for specialty coffee is affected by many factors, including: • Consumer tastes and preferences; • National, regional and local economic conditions; • Demographic trends; and • Perceived or actual health benefits or risks. 7 Table of Contents Because we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee, a shift in consumer preferences away from specialty coffee would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings. If customer demand for specialty coffee decreases, our sales would decrease accordingly. If we fail to continue to develop and maintain our brand, our business could suffer. We believe that maintaining and developing our brand is critical to our success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase as a result of competitors offering products similar to ours. Because the majority of our retail stores are located on the West Coast, primarily in California, our brand recognition remains largely regional. Our brand building initiative involves increasing the availability of our products in grocery stores, license locations and foodservice locations to increase awareness of our brand and create and maintain brand loyalty. If our brand building initiative is unsuccessful, we may never recover the expenses incurred in connection with these efforts and we may be unable to increase our future revenue or implement our business strategy. Our success in promoting and enhancing the Peet’s brand will also depend on our ability to provide customers with high quality products and customer service. Although we take measures to ensure that we sell only fresh roasted whole bean coffee and that our retail employees properly prepare our coffee beverages, we have no control over our whole bean coffee products once purchased by customers. Accordingly, customers may prepare coffee from our whole bean coffee inconsistent with our standards, store our whole bean coffee for long periods of time or resell our whole bean coffee without our consent, which in each case, potentially affects the quality of the coffee prepared from our products. If customers do not perceive our products and service to be of high quality, then the value of our brand may be diminished and, consequently, our ability to implement our business strategy may be adversely affected. Increases in the cost and decreases in availability of high quality Arabica coffee beans could impact our profitability and growth of our business. Although we do not purchase coffee on the commodity markets, price movements in the commodity trading of coffee impact the prices we pay. Coffee is a trade commodity and, in general, its price can fluctuate depending on: weather patterns in coffee-producing countries; economic and political conditions affecting coffee-producing countries; foreign currency fluctuations; the ability of coffee-producing countries to agree to export quotas; and general economic conditions that make commodities more or less attractive investment options. If costs increase and we are unable to pass along increased coffee costs, our margin will decrease and our profitability will decrease accordingly. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of high quality Arabica beans due to any of the above factors, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, our revenue may decrease and our ability to expand our business may be negatively impacted. The recent recession or a worsening of the United States and global economy could materially adversely affect our business. Our revenues and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which have recently deteriorated due to the recession and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer confidence and spending include, without limitation, continuing conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit, labor and healthcare costs, increases in fuel and other energy costs, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. 8 Table of Contents Because our business is based primarily in California, a worsening of economic conditions, a decrease in consumer spending or a change in the competitive conditions in this market may substantially decrease our revenue and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our California retail stores generated approximately 60% of our 2009, 2008 and 2007 net revenue and a substantial portion of the revenue from our other distribution channels is generated in California. We expect that our California operations will continue to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. In addition, our California retail stores provide us with means for increasing brand awareness, building customer loyalty and creating a premium specialty coffee brand. As a result, if the current economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending in California continues or worsens, it may not only lead to a substantial decrease in revenue, but may also adversely impact our ability to market our brand, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy. Complaints or claims by current, former or prospective employees or governmental agencies could adversely affect us. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations which govern such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We have been, and in the future may be, the subject of complaints or litigation from current, former or prospective employees or governmental agencies. In addition, successful complaints against our competitors may spur similar lawsuits against us. For instance, in 2003, two lawsuits (which have since been settled) were filed against the Company alleging misclassification of employment position and sought damages, restitution, reclassification and attorneys’ fees and costs. In addition, on July 14, 2008, a complaint was filed alleging that store managers based in California were not paid overtime wages, were not provided meal or rest periods, were not provided accurate wage statements and were not reimbursed for business expenses. These types of claims could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and might potentially result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in one or more fiscal periods. Potential claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to employment related claims, Peet’s may be subject to various claims and litigation. For example, in 2007 Peet’s was involved as defendants in lawsuits relating to Peet’s stock option granting practices. Although these actions have been dismissed, Peet’s could in the future become subject to other claims and litigation, which could involve, for example, securities law claims, commercial disputes, and disputes relating to intellectual property. Potential lawsuits could divert management’s time and attention from day-to-day operations, result in significant legal expenses, and result in an outcome that could have a material adverse effect on Peet’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and its stock price. Labor conditions in the grocery business could negatively impact our grocery business. There have been grocery strikes in the past that have negatively impacted our grocery business and it is possible that future grocery strikes in places where we have large distribution may adversely impact our grocery business. Government mandatory healthcare requirements could adversely affect our profits. The Company offers healthcare benefits to all employees who work at least 21 hours a week and meet service eligibility requirements. In the past, some states, including California, have unsuccessfully proposed legislation mandating that employers pay healthcare premiums into a state run fund for all employees immediately upon hiring. Various members of Congress have proposed legislation that, among other things, 9 Table of Contents would require employers to provide healthcare to all employees, to pay either a portion of healthcare premiums or a flat payroll tax in lieu of premiums, or to pay a fee for each employee not offered health care. If legislation similar to this were to be enacted nationally, or in any of the states in which we do business, it could have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Because we rely heavily on common carriers to ship our coffee on a daily basis, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee to our customers and retail stores. We consider roasted coffee a perishable product and we rely on these common carriers to deliver fresh roasted coffee on a daily basis. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our coffee in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: • have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brand and reputation; • result in the disposal of an amount of coffee that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and • require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers. Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause our revenue and profits to suffer. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role within our Company without effective replacements, our operations may suffer. The success of our business is dependent to a large degree on our management and our coffee roasters and purchasers. If members of our management leave without effective replacements, our ability to implement our business strategy could be impaired. If we lost the services of our coffee roasters and purchasers, our ability to source and purchase a sufficient supply of high quality coffee beans and roast coffee beans consistent with our quality standards could suffer. In either case, our business and operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to hire or retain additional management and other personnel and our recruiting and training costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase our costs and reduce our profits and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel, including technical personnel and retail employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute our business strategy may suffer if: • we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees; • the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially; or • the costs of outsourcing certain tasks to third party providers increase substantially. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting and distribution facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We have only one roasting and distribution facility that roasts Peet’s coffee. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting and distribution facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Since we only roast our coffee to order, we do not carry inventory of roasted coffee in our roasting plant. Therefore, a disruption in service in our roasting facility would impact our sales in our retail and specialty channels almost immediately. 10 Table of Contents A major earthquake could seriously disrupt our entire business. Our roasting and distribution facility and several of our stores are located near several major earthquake faults in the San Francisco Bay area. The impact of a major earthquake faults in the San Francisco Bay area on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is difficult to predict, and an earthquake could seriously disrupt our entire business. Our insurance may not adequately cover our losses and expenses in the event of an earthquake. As a result, a major earthquake in the San Francisco Bay area could not only seriously disrupt our business, but may also lead to substantial losses. We have a high deductible workers’ compensation insurance program and more claims and higher costs from these claims may adversely affect our profits. For the policy years beginning March 2002 through February 2008 our workers’ compensation insurance program was a modified self-insured program with a high deductible with an overall program ceiling to limit exposure. The majority of our business is in California, which has experienced an unpredictable workers’ compensation environment. Therefore, we are highly exposed to this environment. Additionally, we have had to estimate our liability for existing claims whose outcome is uncertain. While we believe our reserve methodology on these claims is appropriate, should a greater amount of claims occur or the settlement costs increase beyond what was anticipated, our expenses could increase and our profitability may decrease. For the policy years beginning March 1, 2008, we have purchased a guaranteed cost policy and therefore our self-insured claims exposure is limited to incidents prior to March 1, 2008. Our roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our roasted whole bean coffee and, therefore, essential to our brand. Because we do not hold any patents for our roasting methods, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods. If our competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brand may be diminished, and we may lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors may be able to develop roasting methods that are more advanced than our roasting methods, which may also harm our competitive position. Competition in the specialty coffee market is intense and could affect our profits. The specialty coffee category is highly competitive and fragmented among various distribution channels. Starbucks Corporation is the largest competitor in the category. Competition in the specialty coffee category is fragmented among various distribution channels with the major distribution channels being coffeehouses (our retail segment) and grocery stores (part of our specialty segment). The specialty coffee market generates most of its sales from coffeehouses that currently number over 25,000 in the United States, according to the National Coffee Association. In addition, coffee is sold by coffee roasters like Peet’s to foodservice operators, direct to consumers through websites and mail order, offices and other places where coffee is consumed or purchased for home consumption. In the coffeehouse business, Starbucks is our primary competition, but we also compete with small single unit mom and pop coffee houses and regional or local chains such as Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf, Tully’s and Seattle’s Best. In addition, consumers may purchase prepared coffee beverages at countless locations such as convenience stores, bakeries and restaurants. Outside of the coffeehouse business, Starbucks is also our primary competitor but we also compete with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Illy Caffé, Millstone (J.M. Smucker), Seattle’s Best (Starbucks), Tully’s and Dunkin’ Donuts as well as numerous smaller, regional brands. In addition, we indirectly compete with more mainstream brands as Maxwell House (Kraft) and Folgers (J.M. Smucker). In the grocery channel, Kraft and 11 Table of Contents J.M. Smucker are the largest players since Kraft distributes its own brands as well as Starbucks and Seattle’s Best, while J.M. Smucker licenses and distributes the Dunkin’ Donuts brand in addition to its Folgers and Millstone brands. In every channel, Peet’s competes against at least one competitor who is much larger and has more financial resources than we do. There is always a risk that one of these competitors could undertake a strategy that involves very high spending or discounting that would negatively impact our operating results. Adverse public or medical opinion about caffeine may harm our business. Our specialty coffee contains significant amounts of caffeine and other active compounds, the health effects of some of which are not fully understood. A number of research studies conclude or suggest that excessive consumption of caffeine may lead to increased heart rate, nausea and vomiting, restlessness and anxiety, depression, headaches, tremors, sleeplessness and other adverse health effects. An unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in coffee could significantly reduce the demand for coffee, which could harm our business and reduce our sales and profits. In addition, we could become subject to litigation relating to the existence of such compounds in our coffee, which litigation could be costly and could divert management attention. Adverse publicity regarding product quality or food and beverage safety, whether or not accurate, may harm our business. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging beverage and food-related illnesses, injuries suffered on the premises or other quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. In addition, any litigation relating to such allegations could be costly and could divert management attention. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 