Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment and new factors emerge from time to time. These additional risks and uncertainties, as well as risks and uncertainties that we currently believe are immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be successful in the implementation of our business strategy or our business strategy may not be successful, either of which will impede our growth and our results of operations. Our business strategy emphasizes expansion through multiple channels of distribution. Our ability to implement this business strategy depends on our ability to: ·market our products on a national scale and over the internet; ·expand distribution in our grocery and foodservice and office channels; ·increase our brand recognition on a national scale; ·effectively compete in a marketplace that includes emerging technologies such as single serve; and ·manage growth in administrative overhead and distribution costs likely to result from the planned expansion of our retail and non-retail distribution channels. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy or whether our business strategy will be successful. Our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to implement our business strategy or if we divert resources to a business strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. Because our business is highly dependent on a single product, specialty coffee, if the demand for specialty coffee decreases, our business could suffer. Sales of specialty coffee constituted approximately 82% of our 2011 net revenue, and 84% of our 2010 and 2009 net revenue. Demand for specialty coffee is affected by many factors, including: 6 ·Consumer tastes and preferences; ·National, regional and local economic conditions; ·Demographic trends; and ·Perceived or actual health benefits or risks. Because we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee, a shift in consumer preferences away from specialty coffee would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings. If customer demand for specialty coffee decreases, our sales would decrease accordingly. If we fail to continue to develop and maintain our brand, our business could suffer. We believe that maintaining and developing our brand is critical to our success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase as a result of competitors offering products similar to ours. Because the majority of our retail stores are located on the West Coast, primarily in California, our brand recognition remains largely regional. Our brand building initiative involves increasing the availability of our products in grocery stores, licensed locations and foodservice locations to increase awareness of our brand and create and maintain brand loyalty. If our brand building initiative is unsuccessful, we may never recover the expenses incurred in connection with these efforts and we may be unable to increase our future revenue or implement our business strategy. As part of our brand building initiative, we may revise our packaging or make other changes from time to time. If these changes are not accepted by customers, our business could suffer. Our success in promoting and enhancing the Peet's brand will also depend on our ability to provide customers with high-quality products and customer service. Although we take measures to ensure that we sell only fresh roasted whole bean coffee and that our retail employees and licensed locations properly prepare our coffee beverages, we have no control over our whole bean coffee products once purchased by customers. Accordingly, customers may prepare coffee from our whole bean coffee inconsistent with our standards, store our whole bean coffee for long periods of time or resell our whole bean coffee without our consent, which in each case, potentially affects the quality of the coffee prepared from our products. If customers do not perceive our products and service to be of high quality, then our reputation and the value of our brand may be diminished and, consequently, our ability to implement our business strategy may be adversely affected. Additionally, the quality and service delivered by our licensed accounts and “We Proudly Brew” accounts may be diminished by factors beyond our control, including financial pressures, or such licensed accounts may misuse our brand and other trademarks. Any shortcoming of a licensed or “We Proudly Brew” account may be attributed by customers or investors to us, thus damaging our reputation and the value of our brand and adversely affecting our ability to implement our business strategy. Coffee costs have been very volatile over the last two years and increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could impact the profitability of our business. In the past two years, we have experienced a dramatic increase in the price volatility of Arabica coffee traded on New York Board of Trade. Since May 2010, commodity coffee prices have been extremely volatile ranging from a low of $1.32 per pound and peaking at $3.05 per pound. While we do not purchase coffee on the commodity markets, price movements in the commodity trading of Arabica coffee beans impact the prices we pay. As a result of this volatility, in 2011, the price that we paid for our coffee was 42% higher per pound than what we had paid in 2010 and the increased cost affected our profitability negatively as coffee costs as a percent of sales increased from 15% to 21%. We expect the coffee commodity market to continue to be challenging as it continues to be influenced by worldwide supply and demand, the relative strength of the dollar, and speculative trading. Coffee prices can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, political and economic conditions, export quotas or similar factors. In order to have visibility to our costs for the future, we typically fix the price of our coffee needs for the next six to 12 months by purchasing and holding large inventories of green coffee and utilizing future fixed price purchase commitments. As of January 1, 2012, our inventory and fixed price commitments are sufficient for virtually all of our anticipated 2012 needs at a cost per pound approximately 12% higher than 2011. If we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers or find other means to offset coffee inflation, our profitability and margins could be affected. Additionally, if prices of commodity coffee fall dramatically, we will be required to fulfill our commitments for our future contracts that may result in us purchasing coffee at prices substantially above the market price which could negatively impact our competiveness in the marketplace and our profitability. Decreases in the availability of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could impact the profitability and growth of our business. If we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of high-quality Arabica beans due to any of the above factors, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, our revenue may decrease and our ability to expand our business may be negatively impacted. 7 Besides coffee, we face exposure to other commodity cost fluctuations, which could impair our profitability. In addition to the increase in coffee costs discussed above, we are exposed to cost fluctuation in other commodities, including milk, natural gas, gasoline, and wheat. In addition, an increase in the cost of fuel could indirectly lead to higher electricity costs, transportation costs and other commodity costs. Much like coffee costs, the costs of these commodities depend on various factors beyond our control, including economic and political conditions, foreign currency fluctuations, and global weather patterns. To the extent we are unable to pass along such costs to our customers through price increases, our margins and profitability will decrease. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting and distribution facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We have only one roasting and distribution facility that roasts Peet’s coffee. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting and distribution facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster, pandemic or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Since we only roast our coffee to order, we do not carry significant inventory of roasted coffee in our roasting plant. Therefore, a disruption in service in our roasting facility would impact our sales in our retail and specialty channels almost immediately. Moreover, our roasting and distribution facility and most of our stores are located near several major earthquake faults and our roastery is located directly on the bay in Alameda. The impact of a major earthquake or tsunami on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is difficult to predict and an earthquake or tsunami could seriously disrupt our entire business. A major earthquake or tsunami could seriously disrupt our entire business. Our roasting and distribution facility and several dozens of our stores are located near several major earthquake faults and near the water in the San Francisco Bay area. The impact of a major earthquake and/or tsunami in the San Francisco Bay area on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is difficult to predict, and an earthquake or tsunami could seriously disrupt our entire business. Our insurance may not adequately cover our losses and expenses in the event of an earthquake. As a result, a major earthquake or tsunami in the San Francisco Bay area could not only seriously disrupt our business, but may also lead to substantial losses. The recent recession or a worsening of the United States and global economy could materially adversely affect our business. Our revenues and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which have deteriorated due to the recession and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer confidence and spending include, without limitation, continuing conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit, labor and healthcare costs, increases in fuel and other energy costs, elevated unemployment levels and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our business is based primarily in California, a worsening of economic conditions, a decrease in consumer spending or a change in the competitive conditions in this market may substantially decrease our revenue and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. We expect that our California operations will continue to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. In addition, our California retail stores provide us with means for increasing brand awareness, building customer loyalty and creating a premium specialty coffee brand. As a result, if the current economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending in California continues or worsens, it may not only lead to a substantial decrease in revenue, but may also adversely impact our ability to market our brand, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy. Competition in the specialty coffee market is intense and could affect our profits and outlook. The specialty coffee category is highly competitive and fragmented among various distribution channels. Our major distribution channels remain coffeehouses (our retail segment) and grocery stores (part of our specialty segment), but we also (like other coffee roasters) sell to foodservice operators, direct to consumers through websites and mail order, and to offices and other places where coffee is consumed or purchased for home consumption. Increased competition, in particular in the coffeehouse and grocery store channels, could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the single cup coffee market is growing rapidly. The United States single cup market is currently dominated by Green Mountain Coffee Roasters (“GMCR”) with its cartridge-based Keurig® K-Cup® brewing system. Starbucks and GMCR announced in March 2011 that Starbucks is the “exclusive, licensed super-premium coffee brand produced by GMCR for the Keurig Single-Cup brewing system.” There are also several other large, well funded participants with cartridge or pod-based systems competing in this market including Nestle (Nespresso and Dolce Gusto), Kraft (Tassimo), and Mars (Flavia). Currently, most, but not all, single cup cartridge- or pod-based brewing systems are proprietary and could require us to come to an agreement with the owner of the brewing system to have Peet’s-branded coffee and tea available in cartridges that work in the brewers. If the single cup cartridge or pod-based market of proprietary brewing systems continues to grow rapidly at the expense of the non-proprietary single cup brewing methods or existing drip brewing methods and we do not participate in that market segment, our revenue and profit margins could be negatively impacted in the future. 8 Many of Peet’s competitors, including Starbucks, GMCR, J.M. Smucker, Nestle and Kraft, are much larger and have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may have greater flexibility and resources to react to changes in the market. For instance, we were unable to purchase Diedrich Coffee in 2009, because GMCR, the eventual purchaser of Diedrich Coffee, had substantially greater financial resources than Peet’s and was able to pay a substantially higher purchase price for Diedrich Coffee. In addition, our larger competitors have greater resources to promote heavily, reduce prices, maintain prices in the face of cost pressures, or buy shelf space. Our ability to respond to these actions may be inhibited by cost increases or other financial pressures, which may reduce our market share if sustained; alternatively, our efforts to respond to such actions may negatively impact our profit margins. Our competitors may continue to use their size and financial resources to impair our ability to execute our business strategy and reduce our profit margins in the future. Complaints or claims by current, former or prospective employees or governmental agencies could adversely affect us. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations which govern such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, meal and rest periods, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We have been, and in the future may be, the subject of complaints or litigation from current, former or prospective employees or governmental agencies. In addition, successful complaints against our competitors may spur similar lawsuits against us. For instance, in 2003, two lawsuits (which have since been settled) were filed against us alleging misclassification of employment position and sought damages, restitution, reclassification and attorneys’ fees and costs. In 2008, a lawsuit (which has since been settled) was filed alleging that store managers based in California were not paid overtime wages, were not provided meal or rest periods, were not provided accurate wage statements and were not reimbursed for business expenses. In addition, on February 23, 2010, a lawsuit (for which a settlement has been approved) was filed by non-exempt employees on their own behalf and on behalf of employees similarly situated alleging claims for unpaid overtime, unpaid meal and rest period premiums, unpaid business expenses, unpaid minimum wages, untimely wages paid at time of termination, untimely payment of wages, failure to pay vacation wages and non-compliant wage statements. These types of claims and litigation involving current, former or prospective employees could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and might result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in one or more fiscal periods. Claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to employment-related claims, we may be subject to various other claims and litigation. For example, in 2010 and 2011, we, and a number of companies that sell “ready to drink” coffee and coffee sold at retail and brewed and consumed elsewhere were sued for not providing “clear and reasonable warnings” in accordance with California Health and Safety Code section 25249.6 (“Proposition 65”) before allegedly exposing individuals in California to acrylamide. Peet’s remains subject to this ongoing Proposition 65 litigation as well as other litigation (including as described under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”) and could in the future become subject to additional claims and litigation, which could involve, for example, securities law claims, commercial disputes, public health matters and disputes relating to intellectual property. Lawsuits could divert management’s time and attention from day-to-day operations, result in significant legal expenses, and result in outcomes that have a material adverse effect on our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Labor conditions in the grocery business could negatively impact our grocery business. There have been grocery strikes in the past that have negatively impacted our grocery business and it is possible that future grocery strikes in places where we have large distribution may adversely impact our grocery business. Government mandatory healthcare requirements could adversely affect our profits. The Company offers healthcare benefits to all employees who work at least 21 hours a week and meet service eligibility requirements. In the past, some states, including California, have proposed legislation mandating that employers pay healthcare premiums into a state run fund for all employees immediately upon hiring or pay a penalty for failing to do so. If legislation similar to this were to be enacted in California, or in the other states in which we do business, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, comprehensive federal health care legislation (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010) was passed and signed into law in March, 2010. Due to the breadth and complexity of this legislation, the phased-in nature of the implementation, and the lack of implementing regulations, it is difficult to predict the financial and operational impacts this legislation will have on us. Our expenses may significantly increase over the long-term as a result of this legislation. 9 Because we rely heavily on common carriers to ship our coffee on a daily basis, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee to our customers, retail stores, and direct store delivery representatives. We consider roasted coffee a perishable product and we rely on these common carriers to deliver fresh roasted coffee on a daily basis. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our coffee in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: ·have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brand and reputation; ·result in the disposal of an amount of coffee that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and ·require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers. Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause our revenue and profits to suffer. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role within our Company without effective replacements, our operations may suffer. The success of our business is dependent to a large degree on our management and our coffee roasters and purchasers. If members of our management leave without effective replacements, our ability to implement our business strategy could be impaired. If we lost the services of our coffee roasters and purchasers, our ability to source and purchase a sufficient supply of high-quality coffee beans and roast coffee beans consistent with our quality standards could suffer. In either case, our business and operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to hire or retain additional management and other personnel and our recruiting and training costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase our costs and reduce our profits and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel, including technical personnel and retail employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute our business strategy may suffer if: ·we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees; ·the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially; or ·the costs of outsourcing certain tasks to third-party providers increase substantially. Our roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our roasted whole bean coffee and, therefore, essential to our brand. Because we do not hold any patents for our roasting methods, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods. If our competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brand may be diminished, and we may lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors may be able to develop roasting methods that are more advanced than our roasting methods, which may also harm our competitive position. Adverse public or medical opinion about caffeine may harm our business. Our specialty coffee contains significant amounts of caffeine and other active compounds, the health effects of some of which are not fully understood. A number of research studies conclude or suggest that excessive consumption of caffeine may lead to increased heart rate, nausea and vomiting, restlessness and anxiety, depression, headaches, tremors, sleeplessness and other adverse health effects. An unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in coffee could significantly reduce the demand for coffee, which could harm our business and reduce our sales and profits. Also, we could become subject to litigation relating to the existence of such compounds in our coffee (in addition to the current Proposition 65 litigation); any such litigation could be costly and could divert management attention. Adverse publicity regarding product quality or food and beverage safety, whether or not accurate, may harm our business. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging beverage and food-related illnesses, injuries suffered on the premises or other quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations (or similar allegations affecting a licensed or “We Proudly Brew” account) may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we (or they) are ultimately held liable. In addition, any litigation relating to such allegations could be costly and could divert management attention. 10 New laws and regulations or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and results of operations. Our coffee roasting operations and our retail stores are subject to various governmental laws, regulations and licenses relating to customs, health and safety, building and land use, environmental protection and other matters. Additionally, our company is subject to a variety of accounting and reporting requirements as well as to various governmental laws and regulations relating to privacy, taxation and other matters. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate as well as the cost of compliance continue to increase. Failure to comply with the various laws, regulations and requirements applicable to us may damage our reputation, result in civil or criminal liability, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, new laws or regulations may adversely impact our operating costs. For example, final rules were recently issued by the Federal Reserve Board with respect to Section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, typically referred to as the Durbin Amendment. These rules defined a cap for debit card interchange fees. This cap, which is significantly higher than what we typically paid during most of fiscal 2011given our average transaction size in retail, has become the default rate for certain transactions and therefore has negatively impacted us (and we expect it to continue to do so.) Future laws or regulations (or the cost of complying with such laws, regulations or requirements) could also adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial or strategic performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. During the past two years, our common stock has traded at a low of $31.82 and a high of $64.00 per share, and it closed at $62.68 on December 30, 2011. We provide public guidance on our expected results of operations for future periods. This guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings and public statements, and is based necessarily on assumptions we make at the time we provide such guidance. Our guidance may not always be accurate. If, in the future, our results of operations for a particular period do not meet our guidance or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly and/or the volatility in the market price of our common stock could increase. Our common stock could be similarly adversely affected if, in the future, our results of operations or our guidance does not meet the expectations of investment analysts or the market (particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, net revenue, cash flows or strategic initiatives). We rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and adversely impact our results of operations. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for supply chain support, point-of-sale processing in our stores, gift cards, online business, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems (particularly those involving payment or financial data), or a breach in security of some of these systems could negatively impact our sales, increase our costs (whether as a result of reduced efficiency, remediation costs or otherwise) and adversely affect our results of operations. Security breaches of our employees’ or customers’ private data could also adversely impact our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. Our costs could be negatively affected by an unpredictable workers' compensation environment. The majority of our employees are located in California, which has experienced higher workers compensation costs and rates than other states. For the policy years beginning March 2002 through February 2008 our workers' compensation insurance program was a modified self-insured program with a high deductible and an overall program ceiling to limit exposure. For those years, we have established a reserve of $0.4 million. However, the settlement costs for the remaining claims for those years could exceed our reserves. For the policy years beginning March 1, 2008, we have purchased a guaranteed cost policy. As a result, for 2008 and subsequent policy years, we remain exposed to premium fluctuations due to California’s unpredictable workers compensation environment and rising costs and our historical worker compensation experience. Settlement costs in excess of our reserves (for claims before March 2008) or an increase in insurance premiums could impair our profitability. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 