Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K (“report”). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. EXPLANATORY NOTE Restatement of Consolidated Financial Results This annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (“Form 10-K”) includes the restatement of our consolidated financial statements and the related disclosures as of January 1, 2006 and for the two fiscals year ended January 1, 2006 resulting from the (i) previously disclosed voluntary review of historical stock option grant practices and (ii) incorrect methodology used to allocate procurement and production costs into inventory. In this Form 10-K, we have restated our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for the years ended January 1, 2006 (fiscal 2005) and January 2, 2005 (fiscal 2004) and quarterly data for fiscal years 2006 and 2005. In addition, the following items of this Form 10-K include restated financial data: (i) Part II, Item 6—Selected Financial Data; (ii) Part II, Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and (iii) Part II, Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We have not amended our previously-filed Annual Reports on Form 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for any fiscal year or quarter affected by the restatement. Instead, the financial information that has been previously filed or otherwise reported for these periods is superseded by the information in this 2006 Form 10-K, and the financial information contained in such previously-filed reports should no longer be relied upon. 1 Table of Contents Stock Option Grants As previously disclosed, on October 20, 2006, our Board of Directors appointed an Option Review Committee (the “Special Committee”) consisting of two independent directors to oversee a review of the Company’s past stock option granting practices. This voluntary review was initiated in light of the media coverage regarding stock option granting practices of other publicly traded companies. The Special Committee’s review covered the period from the Company’s 2001 initial public offering to August 2006. The Company also reviewed all options granted beginning in 1996. The review was conducted with the assistance of independent legal counsel and accounting experts (the “Review Team”). Special Committee Findings The Review Team reviewed the facts and circumstances surrounding stock option grants made during the review period, which included grants made on 80 dates. The Review Team conducted an extensive investigation including the review of physical and electronic documents and interviews with current and former directors, officers, employees and advisors. Documents reviewed included final versions and electronically stored drafts of board and committee meeting minutes and unanimous written consents, communication records with the Company’s Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee, grant lists and other documents. As part of its investigation, the Special Committee evaluated whether the correct measurement dates had been used under applicable accounting principles for the options granted. The measurement date as defined under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (“APB 25”) and related interpretations, is the first date where there is evidence of proper approval and on which all of the following are known: (1) the individual employee who is entitled to receive the option grant, (2) the number of options that an individual employee is entitled to receive, and (3) the option’s exercise price. The Special Committee concluded its review and reported its findings to the Board of Directors on March 6, 2007. The Special Committee reported that based on their review of data and interviews, the Review Team did not find evidence that there was any deliberate attempt to manipulate the price at which any stock option was granted nor the date of the grant in order to benefit the grant recipient or Peet’s. The Review Team also reported that they did not discover evidence of intentional wrongdoing by any Peet’s employee or Board member. The Review Team did, however, discover a lack of documentation and internal controls in connection with our stock administration system, particularly in the 2001-2003 period. Based on the work of the Special Committee and the Review Team, we have determined that we used an incorrect measurement date for financial accounting purposes for a number of stock option grants. These errors resulted primarily from misapplication of accounting standards related to the determination of certain measurement dates, as discussed below, which on a number of occasions resulted in employees receiving options with stated exercise prices higher or lower than the market prices on the revised measurement dates as determined by the applicable accounting standards. Accordingly, we sought to determine, based on the available evidence for each of the grants, when all prerequisites had been met in order to establish a revised measurement date for the granted options. In addition, we found instances in which the measurement dates for option grants were determined appropriately but the options were accounted for incorrectly. Based on these conclusions, we have restated the accompanying fiscal 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements to record additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to past stock option grants. The cumulative effect of these stock-based compensation adjustments, after tax, aggregate $1.0 million for fiscal years 1998 through 2005. The adjustments, after tax, for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 are $15,000 and $74,000, respectively. 2 Table of Contents The principal components of the restatement are as follows (in thousands): Adjustments,net of tax Revised Measurement Dates: All Employee Grants $ 266 Bonus Grants 420 Other Grants 28 Incorrect Accounting for Grants to Consultants, Modifications and Discounted Options 265 Misapplication of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan 9 $ 988 Revised Measurement Dates. Based on available evidence, the Company applied the methodologies described below to determine the revised measurement dates under APB No. 25 for grants in the following categories: (1) annual grants to all Company employees (“All Employee Grants”); (2) bonus award option grants to directors and officers (“Bonus Grants”); and (3) grants in connection with the hiring and promotion of employees and other discretionary grants (“Other Grants”). • All Employee Grants—Since the Company’s initial public offering in 2001, the Company has made an annual grant of stock options to all employees of the Company. These grants require approval by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (“Compensation Committee”). The number of shares to be granted to each individual is based upon job level in the organization and years of service. We determined that the fiscal 2001 grant was not approved at a Board of Directors or Compensation Committee meeting, but instead we used a unanimous written consent (“UWC”) to obtain Board of Director approval. However, the UWC relating to the grant was not fully executed by the grant date. We have determined the appropriate measurement date of this award to be the date the final Board member signature was obtained on the UWC. We also determined that we used the incorrect measurement date for the fiscal 2002 grant. While Board of Directors approval was received for the shares to be issued and documented in a regularly scheduled board meeting, there was no evidence that the exercise price was determined on the stated date. We have determined the revised measurement date for this grant using our judgment of when the grant details were likely finalized, based on review of available evidence, such as e-mail communications, interviews and supporting facts and circumstances. • Bonus Grants—In 2001, the Company began to grant stock options to director-level employees and above as incentive compensation. The number of options to be granted was determined using a predefined formula that utilizes the exercise price to determine the number of shares to be granted. For the 2001 and 2002 bonus grants, we determined we used an incorrect measurement date for accounting purposes because the list containing the names of grantees, the options awarded to each grantee, and/or the grant date was not evidenced to be approved and determined with finality until a date subsequent to the measurement dates we previously used. We determined the revised measurement dates for the 2001 and 2002 bonus grants based on the date when the formula used to compute the number of options granted to each employee was approved by the Board of Directors and there was evidence that the grant price was established. • Other Grants—The Company also awarded options to key new hires, for promotions and in select situations to reward and retain key individuals. The Company’s general practice has been to grant stock options on the date the employee started work, was promoted or was notified of a discretionary grant. The Company would obtain approval for these grants in two different ways: (1) for grants over 10,000 shares the Company required Board of Directors or Compensation Committee approval, and (2) beginning in February 2003, the Compensation Committee delegated authority to the Chief Executive 3 Table of Contents Officer in his capacity as a member of the Board of Directors to approve grants up to 10,000 shares, as prior to that date the delegation was implied. In certain instances, the available documentation for the grants did not support the original measurement date as all the terms of the grant were not approved and known with finality at the stated grant date. We used the methodology described below for: 1) grants requiring Board of Directors or Compensation Committee approval and 2) grants where granting authority was delegated to the Chief Executive Officer. Other Grants requiring Board of Directors or Compensation Committee approval—We determined the revised measurement date for each stock option grant that requires Board of Directors or Compensation Committee approval to be the Approval Date (as defined below) for the stock option, provided the criteria set forth below were met. If there was not clear documentation supporting the Approval Date, we used the evidence described below to determine the most likely measurement date. • “Approval Date”—The Approval Date was the date of approval set forth in executed minutes or a fully-executed UWC of the Board of Directors or Compensation Committee documenting the grant of the stock option (i.e. employee, number of options, and exercise price.) When we did not have evidence of the approvals through either the minutes or signed UWC, we used other available evidence of approval by the Board of Directors or Compensation Committee, including email communications. • “Most Likely Measurement Date”—If the Approval Date criteria was not evidenced (i.e. all signed UWCs were not returned), we used the earlier of the following dates to determine the revised measurement date as we believe approval of the grant would have occurred prior to this date: • The date the employee was notified of the terms of the option grant, • The signature date of management approvals on the Company’s grant approval form, • The date the grant approval form was received by our human resources department, • Print date or metadata creation date on notice of grant of stock form, or • The date the option was entered into our stock option database application. Other Grants where granting authority was delegated to the Chief Executive Officer: • New Hire Grants—The Company’s Chief Executive Officer has been directly involved in determining the stock options to be granted to new hires. Generally, the terms of these stock options were included in the employee’s offer letter. Therefore, we determined the measurement date for new hire option grants to be the employee’s start date if all of the terms of the option grant were documented in the employee’s offer letter. Where we have determined that new hire option terms had not been determined and approved with finality prior to the employee’s start date, we have used the methodology defined above under “Most Likely Measurement Date”, to determine the revised measurement date. • Promotion and Discretionary Grants—We did not follow a consistent practice in granting, approving or documenting promotion and discretionary grants throughout the years. In many of our promotion and discretionary grants, the available documentation for the grants did not support the original measurement date as all the terms of the grant were not approved and known with finality at the stated grant date. In such instances, we have used the methodology defined above under “Most Likely Measurement Date”, to determine the revised measurement date. Incorrect Accounting for Grants to Consultants, Modifications and Discounted Options. We also identified other accounting errors related to option grants. We identified one Company-wide grant from 1998, before Peet’s became a public company that was intentionally granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of fair value, consistent with the operative stock plan and the Company’s practice at the time, with respect to which we did not correctly account for the discount to fair value. We also identified two options granted to consultants that 4 Table of Contents were incorrectly accounted for as grants to employees. In addition, we found several instances in which we incorrectly accounted for modifications to outstanding options, including one employee option that was accelerated upon termination of employment outside the provisions of the original grant and 11 instances in which employees’ periods to exercise options were extended. Misapplication of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. The Non-Employee Director Plan provides for non-discretionary, automatic option grants to non-employee directors (including both initial grants and annual grants), requiring no independent action of the Board or any committee of the Board. The plan stipulates that each director automatically receives an initial grant and a prorated annual grant on the day of initial election or appointment to the Board of Directors and an ongoing annual grant on the day following each annual meeting of shareholders. Prior to May 2005 the plan specified that options would have an exercise price equal to the market value of the option grant, which was defined as the closing price of the stock on the day prior to the grant. The plan was amended in May 2005 to define the market value as the closing price of the stock on the day of the option grant. The Company incorrectly administered three annual grants to all directors and one initial grant by applying a measurement date that was incorrect by one day. In addition, in two instances, the Company did not record the proper prorated grant upon a new director being named to the Board. The Company intends to correct these two administrative errors on the prorated grants in accordance with the plan. Of the three annual grants to all directors, two were recorded at an exercise price higher than the market price on the revised measurement date, and therefore no additional expense has been recognized in respect to these grants. Total Financial Impact of Stock Option Related Restatement The total stock-based compensation expense and incremental impact, to correct these errors in our historical stock option grants is as follows, net of related income tax expenses (in thousands): Stock-based Compensation Adjustments As previouslyreported, net of tax As restated, net of tax pre-tax tax effect net of tax 1998 $ 26 $ 11 $ 15 $ — $ 15 1999 48 20 28 9 37 2000 51 21 30 143 173 2001 291 119 172 183 355 2002 953 389 564 174 738 2003 152 62 90 115 205 1998-2003 899 2004 125 51 74 54 128 2005 26 11 15 10 25 $ 1,672 $ 684 $ 988 As of January 2, 2006 (the first day of the Company’s 2006 fiscal year), the aggregate amount of unamortized compensation expense related to these option grants totaled approximately $57,000. Additionally, we have restated the related pro forma expense for the years ended January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005 under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of this 2006 Form 10-K to reflect the impact of these adjustments. With respect to the matters discussed above, it is conceivable that others viewing the same evidence might have selected different measurement dates and that a higher or lower compensation charge would have resulted. Solely for purposes of assessing the possible effect on compensation expense that using different measurement 5 Table of Contents dates could have had, we selected the earliest and latest measurement dates (if any) that had any substantial support, and calculated compensation expense using the highest and lowest stock price during that range of dates. Based on this data, the resulting additional pre-tax compensation expense could have been as low as $1.0 million or as high as $2.7 million instead of the $1.7 million we have recorded. However, we believe that our methodology provides for the most likely measurement date based on all available information. We are in the process of continuing to develop more formal procedures and controls to provide reasonable assurance that the measurement date for stock option grants is appropriately determined. Effective March 26, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors adopted a stock option granting policy and specified Company procedures. The policy set forth policies and procedures relating to stock option granting practices, including (a) the review of stock option grant documentation prior to a grant to ensure proper support for the measurement date including the appropriate Board of Directors, Compensation Committee or Chief Executive Officer approval, (b) eliminating the use of unanimous written consents by the Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee, and (c) the use of predetermined effective dates for all grants. Procurement and Production Costs Subsequent to the Company’s 2006 year-end, we determined that our methodology for allocating production and procurement cost to inventory was incorrect and resulted in understating inventory balances and misstated net income. The Company’s restated consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2006 includes an increase to inventory balances of $0.9 million and a cumulative net effect on retained earnings of $0.6 million. The pre-tax impact on the consolidated statements of income for fiscal 2005 and 2004 is approximately a $174,000 increase and a $2,000 decrease. Restatement Reconciliation The reconciliation of the cumulative effect of the above adjustments to beginning retained earnings as reported is as follows (in thousands): Cumulative Stock Options Adjustment $ 899 Cumulative Inventory Adjustment (403 ) Cumulative effect on Retained Earnings at December 28, 2003 $ 496 6 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Peet’s Coffee & Tea is a specialty coffee roaster and marketer of fresh roasted whole bean coffee. We sell our coffee under strict freshness standards through multiple channels of distribution including grocery stores, home delivery, office, restaurant and food service accounts and Company-owned and operated stores in six states. Since we believe that roasted coffee is a perishable product, we pursue distribution channels that are consistent with our strict freshness standards. For instance, our distribution to grocery stores emphasizes the use of a direct store delivery (“DSD”) system whereby our employees or agents deliver fresh goods to our grocery partners. We roast to order and ship coffee directly from our roasting facility to our home delivery customers. Our goal is to ensure that customers receive coffee within days of roasting. We have expanded from a retailer that operates its own outlets to a premium coffee brand available through multiple channels of distribution. We signed our first office coffee distribution agreement in 1997 and have since added a number of restaurants, food service accounts and office coffee distributors in select markets. We added online ordering capability to our website in 1997 to complement our existing mail order home delivery business and have since invested in marketing programs designed to support our home delivery channel. In 1998, we initiated a strategic expansion into specialty grocery and gourmet food stores. This expansion was further developed to include distribution to mainstream grocers as we expanded our grocery accounts from 130 to 4,400 stores. We believe our expansion strategy emphasizes disciplined growth and enhancement of our brand’s image and quality reputation. We operate our business through two reportable segments: retail and specialty sales. See Note 11, “Segment Information” to the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included elsewhere in this report. Our website is located at peets.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments or exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website at peets.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company was organized as a Washington corporation in 1971. Company Retail Stores At December 31, 2006 we operated 136 retail stores in six states through which we sell whole bean coffee, beverages and pastries, tea, and other related items. Our stores are designed to facilitate the sale of fresh whole bean coffee and to encourage customer trial of our coffee through coffee beverages. Each store has a dedicated staff person at the bean counter to take orders and assist customers with questions on coffee origins and on home brewing. Upon order, beans are scooped and ground to the customer’s specific requirements. At our beverage counter, we rotate and sell freshly-brewed coffees and coffee-based beverages to promote customer familiarity, sampling, and sales of whole-bean coffees. To ensure that our freshness standards are consistently met, it is our policy not to serve brewed coffee that is more than 30 minutes old and every espresso based drink is made to order using freshly pulled shots of espresso and freshly steamed milk. See “