ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our company is in a transition phase, and its future is uncertain. In December 2008, we announced that the clinical trials of Viprinex did not pass an interim futility analysis and we stopped enrolling patients into the clinical trials we were conducting. In January 2009, after review of the data obtained from the clinical trials, we announced that we would not develop Viprinex further. In connection with this decision, we implemented staff reductions aggregating approximately 75% of our earlier workforce, and subsequently reduced additional management and staff following completion of other contractual obligations that we had. We currently have only four full-time employees and plan to reduce our headcount further starting in September 2009. Since the termination of our Viprinex program, we have also terminated our two preclinical research programs with the Buck Institute. Presently, the marketing and development of the remaining single product candidate in which we have a retained interest (XERECEPT®) is controlled by a third party. We have engaged RBC as our financial advisor to assist in the evaluation of various options to enhance stockholder value, including a sale of the Company or our major assets. However, we have been unable to find a buyer interested in pursuing a transaction that would be of higher value for our stockholders than a complete liquidation and dissolution of the Company. Although the Board has approved a Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company, it remains subject to stockholder approval. We may not obtain the necessary stockholder vote to approve the Plan, and actions by our stockholders could jeopardize or delay the vote, which could result in fluctuations or a decline in our stock price. Further, because the amount of cash ultimately distributed to our stockholders pursuant to the Plan depends on the amount of our liabilities, obligations and expenses and claims against us, and contingency reserves that we establish during the liquidation process, the distributions made to stockholders may be less than expected. If our stockholders do not approve the Plan, we will explore what, if any, alternatives are available for the future of the Company, particularly given that we have terminated substantially all of our management and employees and have been minimizing expenses and terminating contractual relationships. There is currently little active business left to operate and rehiring employees and retaining or rebuilding our management team may not be possible, or would take several months at a cost we are unable to estimate. 4 Table of Contents We only have very limited control over the development and commercialization of XERECEPT®, which we have sold to Celtic Pharma, and as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of this product candidate. In November 2005, we completed the sale of all our rights and assets related to XERECEPT to two newly-formed subsidiaries of Celtic Pharma. Under our agreement with the Celtic Pharma subsidiaries, we are eligible to receive milestone payments upon the achievement of certain regulatory objectives, and if XERECEPT is approved for commercial sale we are eligible to receive payments on profit margins of XERECEPT in the United States and royalties on sales elsewhere in the world. However, because Celtic Pharma has assumed control of the clinical development of XERECEPT throughout the world, our ability to receive these payments largely depends on Celtic Pharma. Celtic Pharma controls the execution of clinical trials and will direct the final regulatory approval process and commercialization, if the product is approved. If Celtic Pharma is unable to successfully develop and market XERECEPT, we will not receive any development milestone payments or any royalty or profit-sharing payments, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. The approval of XERECEPT®, the only investigational drug in which we retain any interest, by the FDA or other regulatory authorities is uncertain and will involve the commitment of substantial time and resources. In June 2009, Celtic Pharma announced the results of its Phase 3 clinical trial of XERECEPT, showing that XERECEPT enabled decreases in steroid usage and steroid-associated side effects in both acute and long-term treatment of patients with edema associated with either primary or metastatic brain tumors. However, the clinical trial did not demonstrate statistical significance for its primary endpoint, a composite of steroid reduction, neurological examination results and functional impairment, which could hinder the future development of XERECEPT. As part of the regulatory approval process, a drug sponsor must conduct preclinical research and clinical trials for each product candidate sufficient to demonstrate its safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA in the United States and other regulatory agencies in the countries where the product candidate will be marketed, if approved. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product, the disease or condition for which the product is in development and the regulations applicable to any particular product. The regulatory process typically also includes a review of the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and standards, including the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. The FDA can delay, limit or decline to grant approval for many reasons, including: • their determination that a product candidate is not safe or effective; • their determination that the manufacturing processes or facilities do not meet specified requirements; or • changes to their approval policies, guidelines or new regulations that affect us in an unfavorable manner. The denial of approval, or any delay or limitation on approval, of XERECEPT would substantially harm our ability to receive future payments tied to the success of XERECEPT. Even if XERECEPT® is approved for commercialization, it may not be successfully commercialized or generate meaningful product revenues for us. If XERECEPT is approved for commercialization and commercialized by Celtic Pharma, we would be entitled to receive payments from Celtic Pharma based on the approvals as well as royalty and/or profit sharing payments. For us to receive these payments, Celtic Pharma would need to either market the drug directly (which would require them to recruit and train a direct sales force), or enter into a collaborative arrangement with a larger biotechnology or pharmaceutical company with an existing sales force to sell, market and distribute the product. Although we are entitled to a percentage of the proceeds received by Celtic Pharma if Celtic Pharma licenses or sells its interest in XERECEPT, we do not have any control or influence over Celtic Pharma’s commercialization decision. Any commercialization arrangement that Celtic Pharma ultimately enters into might not result in generating any meaningful product royalties or other payments to us. 5 Table of Contents Celtic Pharma may not be successful in selling its rights to XERECEPT. Celtic Pharma has announced that it has retained an investment bank to assist with the sale of the worldwide commercial rights to XERECEPT. If Celtic Pharma sells or sublicenses its rights to XERECEPT to another entity, we are entitled to receive 13-22% of the net proceeds that are received by Celtic Pharma in lieu of the milestones and royalties that are payable in the event Celtic Pharma markets the drug directly. Celtic Pharma may not be successful in selling XERECEPT, in which case Celtic Pharma might decide not to continue with further development. Further, even if Celtic Pharma does sell XERECEPT, it is likely that some or all of the consideration it receives would be contingent upon the future development or successful commercialization of the drug, which would substantially delay any payments that we would receive. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition The auction rate securities we hold in our portfolio are currently not actively trading, and we may have to sell all or some of these securities at a loss. As of June 30, 2009, our investments included a variety of interest-bearing ARS for which we paid a total of $7.5 million and are carrying at an estimated value of $5.5 million. These ARS investments are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rates at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or obtain immediate liquidity by selling such investments at par. Since February 2008, the auctions for our ARS have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and we are not able to access these funds until a future auction is successful, the investments are called by the issuer, or we find a buyer outside the auction process. Maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2030 to 2045. All of these ARS investments are investment grade quality and were in compliance with our investment policy at the time of acquisition. Because we are planning to dissolve and liquidate the Company, we are unlikely to be able to hold these ARS investments to maturity. We may experience a loss on sale of the ARS, reducing the capital we have to distribute to stockholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock has historically been low, even when compared to that of other biopharmaceutical companies. Because of our relatively low trading volume, our stock price can be highly volatile. Our liquidation plans may increase this volatility. Any large sales of our stock could have a negative effect on the stock price. Additional factors that may affect the price include: • announcements of our plans regarding the future of the Company; • announcements or actions by our major stockholders relating to the announcement of the planned liquidation and dissolution of the Company; • announcements of the results of clinical trials of Celtic Pharma or any of its potential competitors; • announcements regarding Celtic Pharma’s planned sale of XERECEPT; • the status of our compliance with Nasdaq’s listing standards; • government regulation and health care legislation; and • market conditions for life science companies’ stocks in general. We are not likely to continue to meet the listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could result in our delisting and negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ Capital Market provides various continued listing requirements that a company must meet in order for its stock to continue trading on NASDAQ. The requirements state that a company’s stock may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period 6 Table of Contents of 30 consecutive business days. Our stock is currently trading below $1.00 per share. Although Nasdaq temporarily suspended the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price, the suspension ended on July 31, 2009. If we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report, including the sections entitled “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Business,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We may, in some cases, use words such as “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “potentially,” “will,” or “may,” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report may include statements about: • the approval, timing and consequences of the anticipated plan of liquidation and dissolution; • the development and commercialization or sale of XERECEPT by Celtic Pharma; • projections of expenditures and liabilities, as well as of cash or other assets available for distribution to stockholders; • our ability to retain and hire necessary employees, board members, trustees and others necessary for a dissolution of the Company; • our ability to successfully liquidate our ARS and other assets of the Company for distribution to the stockholders; and • any statements regarding future cash levels, future revenues and future expenses. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These important factors include those that we discuss in this report under the caption “Risk Factors.” You should read these factors and the other cautionary statements made in this report as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. If one or more of these factors materialize, or if any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 