Item 1A. Risk factors. The Company cautions readers that its business activities involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently expected by management. The most significant of those risks are: ● Risk of reduced selling prices and shipments associated with a cyclical industry. Historically, the steel industry has been a cyclical industry. The dramatic downturn in the domestic and global economies which began in the fall of 2008 adversely affected demand for the Company’s products, which has resulted in lower prices and shipments for such products. Such lower prices and shipments caused a significant reduction in the Company’s sales in 2009 and, while there has been some improvement in recent months, it is likely that sales will not return to pre-2009 levels during 2010. This downturn in market conditions also may adversely impact the Company’s efforts to negotiate higher prices in 2010 with its contract customers. At this time, it is impossible to determine when or if the domestic and/or global economies will return to pre-recession levels. There thus is a risk of continued adverse impact on demand for the Company’s products, the prices for those products, and the Company’s sales and shipments of those products as a result of the ongoing weakness in the economy. In addition, global economic conditions remain fragile and the possibility remains that the domestic or global economies may not recover as quickly as we have anticipated, or could even deteriorate, which likely would result in a corresponding fall in demand for the Company’s products and negatively impact the Company’s business, financial results and cash flows. 5 Table of Contents ● Risk of severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one of more of the Company’s major customers. Many, if not most, of the Company’s customers have shared the immense financial and operational challenges faced by the Company during the recent intense recession. For example, in 2009 two major automotive manufacturers, General Motors and Chrysler, received billions of dollars in loans from the federal government and went through a bankruptcy reorganization. While both of those companies have emerged from bankruptcy and are operating, the domestic automotive industry continues to experience significantly reduced light vehicle sales compared to recent historic levels. This continued weakness could lead to increased financial difficulties or even bankruptcy filings by other automotive manufacturers and suppliers to the automotive industry, many of whom are customers of the Company. The Company could be adversely impacted by such financial hardship or bankruptcies. The nature of that impact could be not only a reduction in future sales, but also a loss associated with the potential inability to collect all outstanding accounts receivables. Either event could negatively impact the Company’s financial results and cash flows. ● Risk of reduced demand in key product markets. Although significantly reduced from prior years, the automotive and housing markets remain important elements of the Company’s business. Though conditions have improved in recent months, both markets continue to suffer from the severe economic downturn that started in the fall of 2008. If North American automotive production, in general, or by one or more of the Company’s major automotive customers in particular, were to be further reduced significantly as a result of this economic downturn or other causes, it likely would negatively affect the Company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. Similarly, if demand for the Company’s products sold to the housing market were to be further reduced significantly, it could negatively affect the Company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. ● Risk of increased global steel production and imports. Actions by the Company’s foreign or domestic competitors to increase production in and/or exports to the United States could result in an increased supply of steel in the United States, which could result in lower prices for the Company’s products and negatively impact the Company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. In fact, significant planned increases in production capacity in the United States have been announced by competitors of the Company and new steelmaking and finishing facilities are under construction. In addition, foreign competitors, especially those in China, have substantially increased their production capacity in the last few years. This increased foreign production has contributed to a high level of imports of foreign steel into the United States in recent years and creates a risk of even greater levels of imports, depending upon foreign market and economic conditions, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and other such variables beyond the Company’s control. This would adversely affect the Company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. ● Risk of changes in the cost of raw materials and energy. Approximately 55% of the Company’s shipments are pursuant to contracts having durations of six months or more. Approximately 83% of the Company’s shipments to contract customers include variable pricing mechanisms to adjust the price or to impose a surcharge based upon changes in certain raw material and energy costs, but those adjustments do not always reflect all of the underlying raw material and energy cost changes. Many of the Company’s contracts contain fixed prices that do not allow a pass through of all of the raw material and energy cost increases or decreases. Approximately 45% of the Company’s shipments are in the spot market, therefore pricing for these products fluctuates regularly based on prevailing market conditions. Thus, the price at which the Company sells steel will not necessarily change in tandem with changes in its raw material and energy costs. As a result, a significant increase in raw material or energy costs could adversely impact the Company’s financial results. This impact can be exacerbated by the Company’s “last in, first out” (“LIFO”) method for valuing inventories when there are significant changes in the cost of raw materials or energy or in the Company’s raw material inventory levels. The impact of LIFO accounting may be particularly significant with respect to period-to-period comparisons. ● Risks relating to the supply of raw materials. The Company has certain raw material supply contracts, particularly with respect to iron ore, which have terms providing for minimum annual purchases, subject to exceptions for force majeure and other circumstances impacting the legal enforceability of the contracts. If demand for the Company’s products falls for an extended period significantly below what was projected at the time these contracts were entered into, the Company could be required to purchase quantities of raw materials, particularly iron ore, which exceed its 6 Table of Contents anticipated future annual needs. Conversely, however, if demand for the Company’s products increases beyond what was projected, there is a risk that the Company would not have adequate supplies of all raw materials under contract and that it might be unable to secure all of the raw materials it needs to meet the increased demand, or to secure them at reasonable prices that will not adversely impact the Company’s financial results and cash flows. ● Risk of production disruption at the Company. Under normal business conditions, the Company operates its facilities at production levels at or near capacity. High levels of production are important to the Company’s financial results because they enable the Company to spread its fixed costs over a greater number of tons. Production disruptions could be caused by the idling of facilities due to reduced demand, such as resulting from the recent economic downturn. Such production disruptions also could be caused by unanticipated plant outages or equipment failures, particularly under circumstances where the Company lacks adequate redundant facilities, such as with respect to its hot mill. Production also could be adversely impacted by transportation or raw material or energy supply disruptions, or poor quality of raw materials, particularly scrap, coal, coke, iron ore, alloys and purchased carbon slabs. This would adversely affect the Company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. ● Risks associated with the Company’s healthcare obligations. The Company provides healthcare coverage to its active employees and its retirees, as well as to certain members of their families. The Company is self-insured with respect to substantially all of its healthcare coverage. While the Company has mitigated its exposure to rising healthcare costs through cost sharing and healthcare cost caps, the cost of providing such healthcare coverage is greater on a relative basis for the Company than for other steel companies against whom the Company competes which either provide a lesser level of benefits, require that their participants pay more for the benefits they receive, or do not provide coverage to as broad a group of participants (e.g., they do not provide retiree healthcare benefits). Moreover, litigation has been filed against the Company on behalf of various groups of its retirees alleging that the Company lacked the authority to impose certain cost sharing and healthcare cost caps. If that litigation is successful, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and could adversely affect the long-term ability of the Company to provide future healthcare benefits. In addition, the potential impacts of federal healthcare legislation could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition through increased costs. ● Risks associated with the Company’s pension obligations. The Company’s pension trust is currently underfunded to meet its long-term obligations, primarily as a result of below-expectation investment returns in the early years of the prior decade, as well as the dramatic decline in the financial markets that began in late 2008. The extent of underfunding is directly affected by changes in interest rates and asset returns in the securities markets. It is also affected by the rate and age of employee retirements, along with other actuarial experiences compared to projections. These items affect pension plan assets and the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and expenses. Such changes could increase the cost to the Company of those obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results and its ability to meet those obligations. In addition, changes in the law, rules, or governmental regulations with respect to pension funding also could materially and adversely affect the cash flow of the Company and its ability to meet its pension and other benefit obligations. In addition, under the method of accounting used by the Company with respect to its pension and other postretirement obligations, the Company is required to recognize into its results of operations, as a non-cash “corridor” adjustment, any unrecognized actuarial net gains or losses that exceed 10% of the larger of projected benefit obligations or plan assets. A corridor charge, if required after a re-measurement of the Company’s pension obligations, historically has been recorded in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. In past years, these corridor charges have had a significant negative impact on the Company’s financial statements. ● Risk of not timely reaching new labor agreements. The labor agreement with the United Steelworkers of America Local 1865, which represents approximately 750 hourly employees at the Company’s West Works located in Ashland, Kentucky, expires on September 1, 2010. The Company intends to negotiate with the union to reach a new, competitive labor agreement in advance of the current expiration date. The Company cannot predict at this time, however, when a new, competitive labor agreement with the union at the Ashland West Works will be reached or what the impact of such an agreement on the Company’s operating costs, operating income and cash 7 Table of Contents flow will be. There is the potential of a work stoppage at this location if the Company and the union cannot reach a timely agreement in contract negotiations. If there were to be a work stoppage, it could have a material impact on the Company’s operations and financial results. ● Risks associated with major litigation, arbitrations, environmental issues and other contingencies. The Company has described several significant legal and environmental proceedings in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 7 of this report. An adverse result in one or more of those proceedings could negatively impact the Company’s financial results and cash flows. ● Risks associated with environmental compliance. Due to the nature and extent of environmental issues affecting the Company’s operations and obligations, changes in application or scope of environmental regulations applicable to the Company could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial results and cash flows. ● Risks associated with climate change and greenhouse gas emission limitations. The United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol Treaty (the “Kyoto Protocol”) and the Company does not produce steel in a country which has ratified that treaty. Negotiations for a treaty which would succeed the Kyoto Protocol are ongoing and it is not known yet what the terms of that successor treaty ultimately will be or if the United States will ratify it. It appears, however, that limitations on greenhouse gas emissions may be imposed in the United States at some point in the future through federally enacted legislation. Bills recently introduced in the United States Congress are aimed at limiting carbon emissions from companies which conduct business that is carbon-intensive. Such bills, if enacted, would apply to the steel industry, generally, and the Company, in particular. Among other potential material items, each bill includes a proposed system of carbon emission credits issued to certain companies, similar to the European Union’s existing “cap and trade” system. That said, each of these bills is likely to be altered substantially as they move through the legislative process, making it difficult at this time to forecast what the final legislation, if any, will look like and the resulting effects on the Company. If legislation similar to these bills is enacted, however, the Company likely will suffer negative financial impact as a result of increased energy, environmental and other costs in order to comply with the limitations that would be imposed on greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, depending upon whether similar limitations are imposed globally, the legislation could negatively impact the Company’s ability to compete with foreign steel companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Unless and until the legislation is enacted and its terms are known, however, the Company cannot reasonably or reliably estimate the impact of such legislation on its financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. ● Risks associated with financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets. In the ordinary course of business, the Company’s risks include its ability to access competitive financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets. Currently, the Company believes it has adequate access to these markets to meet its reasonably anticipated business needs. The Company both provides and receives normal trade financing to and from its customers and suppliers. To the extent access to competitive financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets by the Company, or its customers or suppliers, is impaired, the Company’s operations, financial results and cash flows could be adversely impacted. While the previously listed items represent the most significant risks to the Company, the Company regularly monitors and reports risks to management and the Board of Directors by means of a formal Total Enterprise Risk Management program. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments. Item 