Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company cautions readers that its business activities involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently expected by management. The most significant of those risks are: • Risk of not obtaining competitive labor agreements. AK Steel continues to have labor agreements at some of its facilities that are not competitive. These include the labor agreements at the Company’s Middletown Works, Butler Works and Zanesville Works, all of which expire in 2006. New labor agreements to be negotiated this year with the unions at these facilities could either enhance or negatively impact the Company’s operating costs, operating income and cash flow depending on the success of labor negotiations. • Risk of a work stoppage. The labor agreements with the represented employees at three of AK Steel’s facilities, including its two largest facilities, expire this year. If AK Steel is unable to timely reach a new collective bargaining agreement with one or more of these unions, it could result in a work stoppage. While management is seeking to reach new agreements at these facilities before the existing ones expire, the Company cannot predict the outcome of the contract negotiations. The Company has contingency plans to operate its facilities in the event of a work stoppage, but there is a risk that such a work stoppage, nonetheless, could have a material impact on the Company’s operations and financial results. The Middletown Works labor agreement expired on February 28, 2006 and the parties were unable prior to its expiration to reach a new agreement. Effective March 1, 2006, the the Company elected to exercise its right to prevent the represented employees at the Middletown Works from continuing to work without a labor agreement. The Company has implemented its contingency plan to operate the Middletown Works with temporary replacement workers and salaried employees. • Risk of reduced selling prices and shipments associated with a cyclical industry. The steel industry historically has been a cyclical industry. A downturn in the domestic or global economy could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products, which likely would result in lower prices and shipments for such products. Such lower prices and shipments could impact the Company’s sales to the spot market or its efforts to negotiate higher prices with its contract customers. • Risk of reduced automotive production. The automotive market remains a key segment of the Company’s sales, with approximately 45% of its sales being to that market in 2005. Total domestic automotive production in 2005 was at a relatively high level on an historical basis. If domestic automotive production in general, or by one or more of the Company’s major domestic customers in particular, were to be reduced significantly, it would likely negatively affect the Company’s sales and financial results. • Risk of production disruptions. The Company operates its facilities at capacity, or near capacity, production levels. High levels of production are important to the Company’s financial results because they enable the Company to spread its fixed costs over a greater number of tons. Production disruptions could result in material negative impacts to the Company’s operations and financial results. Such production disruptions could be caused by unanticipated plant outages, equipment failures, transportation disruptions, or unanticipated disruptions in the supply of, or poor quality of, raw materials and energy, particularly natural gas, scrap, coal, coke, iron ore, alloys and purchased carbon slabs. 6 Table of Contents • Risk of increased global steel production, particularly in China. Actions by the Company’s domestic and foreign competitors—including, in particular, steel companies in China—to increase production, could result in an increased supply of steel in the United States which would likely result in lower prices for the Company’s products. • Risks associated with the Company’s pension obligations. The Company’s pension trust currently is underfunded to meet its long-term obligations. The extent of underfunding is directly affected by changes in interest rates and prices in the securities markets. These items affect pension plan assets and the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and expenses could increase the cost to the Company of those obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results and its ability to meet those obligations. In addition, changes in the law, rules, or governmental regulations with respect to pension funding also could materially and adversely affect the cash flow of the Company to meet its pension and other benefit obligations. • Risks associated with the Company’s healthcare obligations. The Company provides healthcare coverage to its active employees and its retirees, as well as to certain members of their families. The Company is self-insured with respect to healthcare coverage. The cost of providing such healthcare coverage continues to increase. Continuing escalation in medical cost trend rates that affects active employee and retiree benefit expenses would adversely affect the Company’s financial results and could adversely affect the ability of the Company to provide those benefits. • Risk of changes in the cost of raw materials and energy. Approximately 70% of the Company’s sales are pursuant to contracts having durations of six months or more. Approximately half of these sales contracts by volume include mechanisms to adjust the price or to impose a surcharge based upon changes in key raw material costs, but many contain fixed prices or do not allow a pass through of all of the raw material cost increases. Thus, the price at which the Company sells steel will not necessarily change in tandem with changes in its raw material and energy costs. If raw material or energy costs increase significantly, that could adversely impact the Company’s financial results. Raw material and energy costs have increased significantly during the last two years and did adversely impact the Company’s financial results in 2004 and 2005. Significant increases in energy and certain raw material costs are anticipated again in 2006. • Risks associated with major litigation, arbitrations, environmental issues and other contingencies. The Company has described several significant environmental and legal proceedings in Items 1 and 3 of this Form 10-K. An adverse result in one or more of those proceedings could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. See discussion under Legal Proceedings on page 8 below. • Risks associated with environmental compliance. Due to the nature and extent of environmental issues affecting the Company’s operations and obligations, changes in application or scope of environmental regulations applicable to the Company could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved SEC staff comments. 