ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Wind-down of our Business and Affairs If the amount of our contingency reserve is insufficient to satisfy the aggregate amount of our liabilities and other obligations, each stockholder may be liable to our creditors for the amount of liquidating distributions received by such stockholder under the Plan of Dissolution, which could also have adverse tax consequences. Our corporate existence will continue until at least December 17, 2012, three years from the date we filed the Certificate of Dissolution. However, as a corporation in dissolution, we are not allowed to carry on any business except for the purpose of winding down the business and affairs of the Company. After we filed the Certificate of Dissolution, we commenced the elective dissolution process, under Sections 280 and 281(a) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or DGCL, which involves providing notice of our dissolution to potential claimants and paying or making reasonable provision to pay all claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional or unmatured contractual or statutory claims, known to us. We may also obtain and maintain insurance coverage or establish and set aside a reasonable amount of cash or other assets as a contingency reserve to satisfy claims against and obligations of the Company. In the event that the amount of the contingency reserve, insurance and other measures calculated to provide for the satisfaction of liabilities and claims are insufficient to satisfy the aggregate amount ultimately found payable in respect of our liabilities and claims against us, each stockholder could be held liable for amounts due to creditors up to the amounts distributed to such stockholder under the Plan of Dissolution. In such event, a stockholder could be required to return any amounts received as distributions pursuant to the Plan of Dissolution. Moreover, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, payments made by a stockholder in satisfaction of our liabilities not covered by the cash or other assets in our contingency reserve or otherwise satisfied through insurance or other reasonable means generally would produce a capital loss for such stockholder in the year the liabilities are paid. The deductibility of any such capital loss generally would be subject to limitations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Final liquidating distributions to our stockholders could be delayed or reduced or may never be made. Any final liquidating distributions we make to our stockholders could be delayed, depending on many factors, including, without limitation: • if a creditor or other third party seeks an injunction against the making of distributions to our stockholders on the ground that the amounts to be distributed are needed to provide for the satisfaction of our liabilities or other obligations; • if we become a party to lawsuits or other claims asserted by or against us, including any claims or litigation arising in connection with our decision to liquidate and dissolve, payments to suppliers or other vendors or claims from patients in our clinical trials; • if we are unable to liquidate our remaining auction rate security, or ARS, or if such liquidation takes longer than expected; • if we are unable to resolve claims with creditors or other third parties, or if such resolutions take longer than expected; or • the elective dissolution process is not completed in a timely manner due to all of the steps required to complete such a process, including any potential delay in the Delaware Court of Chancery, which could delay final approval of our petition. 4 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, under the DGCL, claims and demands may be asserted against us at any time before December 17, 2012. Accordingly, we may retain funds to obtain and maintain insurance coverage or establish and set aside a reasonable amount of cash or other assets as a contingency reserve to satisfy claims against and obligations of the Company that may arise during that three-year period. As a result of these factors, we may retain for distribution at a later date, some or all of the estimated amounts that we expect to distribute to our stockholders. At the conclusion of the process for dissolution, there may not be any remaining cash available for distribution to stockholders. We may not be able to settle all of our obligations to creditors. Our estimate of the final distributions to our stockholders takes into account all of our known obligations and our best estimate of the amount reasonably required to satisfy other estimated obligations. As part of the dissolution process, we will attempt to settle all obligations with our creditors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to settle all of these obligations or that they can be settled for the amounts we have estimated for purposes of calculating the likely distribution to stockholders. Although the time-period for known creditors to submit claims to us under Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL ended on May 8, 2010, there may be additional unknown creditors that have yet to submit a valid claim. If we are unable to reach agreement with a creditor submitting such a claim, that creditor may bring a lawsuit against us. Amounts required to settle obligations or defend lawsuits in excess of the estimated amounts will result in distributions to stockholders that are smaller than those that we presently estimate or may eliminate distributions entirely. We have no control over the development and commercialization of XERECEPT®, which we have sold to Celtic Pharma, and as a result, we are dependent upon Celtic Pharma to obtain any value from this product candidate. In November 2005, we completed the sale of all our rights and assets related to XERECEPT to two newly-formed subsidiaries of Celtic Pharma. Under our agreement with the Celtic Pharma subsidiaries, we are eligible to receive milestone payments upon the achievement of certain regulatory objectives, and if XERECEPT is approved for commercial sale we are eligible to receive payments on profit margins of XERECEPT in the United States and royalties on sales elsewhere in the world. However, because Celtic Pharma has assumed control of the clinical development of XERECEPT throughout the world, our ability to receive these payments depends on Celtic Pharma. Celtic Pharma controls the execution of clinical trials and will direct the final regulatory approval process and commercialization, if the product is approved. If Celtic Pharma is unable to successfully develop and market XERECEPT, we will not receive any development milestone payments or any royalty or profit-sharing payments, which would reduce the potential for future distributions to our stockholders. The approval of XERECEPT®, the only investigational drug in which we retain any interest, by the FDA or other regulatory authorities is uncertain and will involve the commitment of substantial time and resources. In June 2009, Celtic Pharma announced the results of its Phase 3 clinical trial of XERECEPT, showing that XERECEPT enabled decreases in steroid usage and steroid-associated side effects in both acute and long-term treatment of patients with edema associated with either primary or metastatic brain tumors. However, the clinical trial did not demonstrate statistical significance for its primary endpoint, a composite of steroid reduction, neurological examination results and functional impairment, which could hinder the future development of XERECEPT. In April 2010, Celtic Pharma announced the initiation of Phase 1/2 clinical trials of XERECEPT in pediatric patients suffering from primary, recurrent or metastatic brain tumors, as well as the results from several preclinical studies of XERECEPT® in established models for breast, colon and brain tumors. These are very early studies and significant further development efforts and time will be required before any potential value would likely be realized. As part of the regulatory approval process, a drug sponsor must conduct preclinical research and clinical trials for each product candidate sufficient to demonstrate its safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA in the United States and other regulatory agencies in the countries where the product candidate will be marketed, if approved. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product, the disease or condition for which the product is in development and the regulations applicable to any particular product. The regulatory process typically also includes a review of the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and standards, including the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. The FDA can delay, limit or decline to grant approval for many reasons, including their determination that a product candidate is not safe or effective or their determination that the manufacturing processes or facilities do not meet specified requirements, among others. The denial of approval, or any delay or limitation on approval, of XERECEPT would substantially harm our ability to receive future payments tied to the success of XERECEPT. 5 Table of Contents Even if XERECEPT® is approved for commercialization, it may not be successfully commercialized or generate meaningful product revenues for us. If XERECEPT is approved for commercialization and commercialized by Celtic Pharma, we would be entitled to receive payments from Celtic Pharma based on the approvals as well as royalty and/or profit sharing payments. For us to receive these payments, Celtic Pharma would need to either market the drug directly, which would require them to recruit and train a direct sales force, or enter into a collaborative arrangement with a larger biotechnology or pharmaceutical company with an existing sales force to sell, market and distribute the product. Although we are entitled to a percentage of the proceeds received by Celtic Pharma if Celtic Pharma licenses or sells its interest in XERECEPT, we do not have any control or influence over Celtic Pharma’s commercialization decision. Any commercialization arrangement that Celtic Pharma ultimately enters into might not result in generating any meaningful product royalties or other payments to us. Celtic Pharma may not be successful in selling its rights to XERECEPT. Celtic Pharma has previously announced that it has retained an investment bank to assist with the sale of the worldwide commercial rights to XERECEPT. If Celtic Pharma sells or sublicenses its rights to XERECEPT to another entity, we are entitled to receive 13 to 22% of the net proceeds that are received by Celtic Pharma in lieu of the milestones and royalties that are payable in the event Celtic Pharma markets the drug directly. Celtic Pharma may not be successful in selling XERECEPT, in which case Celtic Pharma might decide not to continue with further development. Further, even if Celtic Pharma does sell XERECEPT, it is likely that some or all of the consideration it receives would be contingent upon the future development or successful commercialization of the drug, which would substantially delay any payments that we would receive. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition The auction rate security we hold in our portfolio trades infrequently, its value has been estimated, and we may have to sell it at a loss. As of June 30, 2010, our investments included a single remaining interest-bearing ARS for which we paid a total of $700,000, and are carrying at an estimated value of $588,000. The ARS investment is intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rates at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or obtain immediate liquidity by selling such investments at par. Since February 2008, the auctions for our ARS have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, the investment is not currently liquid and we are not able to access these funds until a future auction is successful, the investments are called by the issuer, or we find a buyer outside the auction process. The maturity date for the ARS is not until 2031 and we are unlikely to be able to hold the ARS investment to maturity. The value of this security has been estimated, and its actual value upon sale may be less than we have estimated. We may experience a further loss on sale of the ARS, reducing the capital available to distribute to stockholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock stopped trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on December 17, 2009, and we closed our stock transfer books as of this date, each of which will make it difficult for stockholders to trade their shares. On December 17, 2009, we closed our stock transfer books after we filed the Certificate of Dissolution. We are now prohibited from recording transfers of record ownership of our common stock, and stock certificates evidencing the shares of our common stock are no longer assignable or transferable on our books. Trading of our common stock was halted on the Nasdaq Capital Market as of the beginning of business on December 17, 2009, and trading of our common stock is now conducted in the Pink Sheets, an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities. Such trading has reduced the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor will find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. As we are no longer an operating company, the only value underlying the trading price of our common stock is the right to receive further distributions, if any, as part of the liquidation process. Because of the difficulty in estimating the amount and timing of the liquidating distributions and due to the other risk factors discussed, our common stock is likely to continue to be subject to significant volatility and may trade above or below the amount of any future liquidating distribution that may be made. 6 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report, including the sections entitled “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Business,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We may, in some cases, use words such as “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “potentially,” “will,” or “may,” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report may include statements about: • the development and commercialization or sale of XERECEPT by Celtic Pharma; • projections of expenditures and liabilities, as well as of cash or other assets available for distribution to stockholders; • our ability to successfully liquidate our remaining ARS and other assets of the Company for distribution to the stockholders; and • any statements regarding future cash levels, future costs and/or net assets in liquidation. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These factors include those that we discuss in this report under the caption “Risk Factors.” You should read these factors and the other cautionary statements made in this report as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. If one or more of these factors materialize, or if any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 