ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements about our business and results of operations that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below. In addition to the risk factors discussed below, we are also subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business could be harmed substantially. Risks Related to Our Current Clinical Trials for Viprinex Viprinex has failed in one of two Phase 3 clinical trials conducted by Knoll for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, and it may not prove to be safe and effective in our current Phase 3 trials. Because Viprinex is our only product candidate, the failure of the interim analysis or any negative or inconclusive results in the ongoing trials would significantly harm our prospects and depress our stock price. Although it has shown success in one of the two Phase 3 studies conducted by Knoll before we acquired the rights to Viprinex, Viprinex has also previously failed in a large multi-center Phase 3 clinical trial conducted by Knoll. In the failed trial, an interim analysis concluded that Viprinex was unlikely to reach its primary efficacy endpoint. Further analysis of the trial data revealed that Viprinex-treated patients suffered from higher symptomatic intracranial hemorrhaging and higher mortality rates than patients receiving the placebo treatment. Although we believe we may be able to address these problems by using a significantly changed dosing regimen in our current clinical trials, we still may not be able to demonstrate that Viprinex is a safe and effective treatment for acute ischemic stroke to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. There is only one approved treatment for acute ischemic stroke, and many other drug candidates for this indication have failed in late-stage clinical trials, even after successful earlier-stage trials. If we are unable to demonstrate that Viprinex is a safe and effective treatment for acute ischemic stroke to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies, we will not receive regulatory approval and our business would be materially harmed. The earlier failure of Viprinex illustrates the risks of clinical development of new drugs, including the possibility that drug candidates may be found to be unsafe and/or ineffective. If our trials do not have positive outcomes we may be forced cease further development of Viprinex or to make additional significant expenditures for further clinical trials. Additionally, because Viprinex is the focus of nearly all our current drug development efforts, the failure of Viprinex in the trials would greatly diminish our prospects and would likely cause our stock price to decline significantly. 15 Table of Contents We are scheduled to complete an interim analysis of the data gathered from the first 500 treated patients into our current Viprinex clinical trials no later than the first quarter of calendar 2009. Although the DSMB has reviewed the safety of Viprinex as studied in the current trials, they have never evaluated efficacy. New safety concerns could be identified during the analysis, or the DSMB could determine that we have not met the established efficacy hurdle to continue the study. Termination of the study because of safety concerns or because of lack of efficacy would likely result in our decision to terminate all future development of Viprinex, greatly diminishing our prospects and likely causing further declines in our stock price. If our clinical trials for Viprinex are delayed because of patient enrollment or other problems, we would incur additional costs and experience delays in the potential receipt of revenues. The rate of patient enrollment to date in our clinical trials for Viprinex continues to be slower than planned. These delays have caused us to revise our estimated completion dates for these trials on several occasions, and any additional delays would further impede the timely development of Viprinex and would further increase our development costs and risks. If the results of an upcoming study evaluating the use of rt-PA as a treatment for acute ischemic stroke when given between 3 and 41/2 after stroke onset are positive, the enrollment into our trials may be slowed due to greater use of rt-PA among patients who would otherwise be candidates for enrollment into our trials. Delays in patient enrollment in our current or future clinical trials will result in increased costs, a delay in our ability to seek marketing approval and the loss of potential revenues. Due to the delays we have experienced to date, we are likely to require additional funds to complete the two clinical trials which are currently underway. Further, if we experience significant delays, our long-term prospects will be negatively affected due to, among other things, the limited time we would continue to have patent protection. In any such case, our prospects would be harmed and our stock price could decline. The approval of Viprinex by the FDA or other regulatory authorities is uncertain and regulatory authorities may not approve it even if it meets the safety and efficacy endpoints in our clinical trials. We may not receive regulatory approval from the FDA or any other regulatory body required for the commercial sale of Viprinex, or any future products in the United States or any other jurisdiction. The FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities might decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional clinical trials or other studies. In addition, even if we do obtain approval to market Viprinex, the process of obtaining FDA approval may take longer and require the expenditure of more resources than we anticipate. The regulatory approval of a new drug typically takes many years and varies substantially based on the type, complexity and novelty of the drug for which approval is sought, and the outcome is uncertain. Promising results from early clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for Viprinex, or any future product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell any products and therefore will not be able to generate any revenues from product sales or become profitable. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies can delay approval of or refuse to approve a drug application, including our potential drug application for Viprinex, for a variety of reasons, including failure to meet safety and efficacy endpoints in our clinical trials. In addition, our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA, have substantial discretion in the approval process and may disagree with our trial design and our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Even if a product candidate is approved, it may be approved for fewer or more limited indications than requested or the approval may be subject to meeting conditions we are not able to meet. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Any such limitation, condition or denial of approval would have an adverse affect on our business, reputation and results of operations. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials for Viprinex, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may prevent or delay development and commercialization of our lead drug candidate. We have entered into various contractual arrangements with CROs, consultants and others, and we are dependent upon the outside parties to perform their assigned responsibilities in an ethical and competent manner. Certain of our arrangements with these outside parties may place significant responsibility on them for human clinical testing and for various roles in preparing and submitting submissions for regulatory approval. We have previously experienced delays and other problems with CRO performance, and have previously changed CROs due to these problems. These difficulties have caused delays in our clinical trials and the same or new problems may occur with the current CROs we are using. If any additional problems occur, the clinical development of Viprinex could be further delayed and our business, financial condition and results would be adversely affected. We have also relied on scientific, clinical, commercial and other data supplied and disclosed by others in entering into these agreements. We have relied on these data in support of applications for human clinical trials for Viprinex. Although we have no reason to believe that this information contains errors or omissions of fact, it is possible that there are errors or omissions of fact that would change materially our view of the future likelihood of FDA approval or commercial viability of Viprinex. 16 Table of Contents We do not have our own manufacturing facilities and are dependent on contract manufacturers and suppliers for the development and production of Viprinex. We must procure from third parties our supplies of Viprinex for our clinical trials. We are party to agreements with Nordmark to house and maintain our colony of Malayan pit vipers, to purify the snake venom that is used to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Viprinex, and to supply us with this active pharmaceutical ingredient in finished form for our clinical trials. We also have an agreement with Baxter for other aspects of the development, supply and packaging of Viprinex. Any difficulties in the manufacturing processes with the snakes, Nordmark or Baxter could delay our clinical trials and impede the development and commercialization of Viprinex. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or extend these arrangements on satisfactory terms, if at all, and we may not be able to find suitable replacements for Nordmark and/or Baxter if these arrangements are terminated. Further, although we perform audits on Nordmark and Baxter to assess their compliance with cGMP regulations, there can be no assurance that these or other contractors will meet cGMP standards or be able to synthesize, purify and deliver Viprinex in a timely fashion. Although alternative cGMP suppliers of the bulk drugs and of finished dosage form products are available to us, Viprinex is difficult and costly to produce, and we believe that there is only a limited number of manufacturers that are capable of producing the compound. The loss of our current supply arrangement could significantly delay our clinical trials for Viprinex and could impact the commercialization of the drug if it is ultimately approved by the FDA. As a result, we may face delays or we may not be able to adequately manufacture the drug for approval or commercial sale, which would harm our stock price, business and financial position. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have a history of losses, we expect to generate losses in the near future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. As we have funded the development and clinical testing of our drug candidates, we have experienced operating losses in nearly every year since our inception. As of June 30, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $126 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the next several years as we continue our clinical trials for Viprinex, continue to investigate new treatments for Alzheimer’s and Huntington’s diseases, and pursue potential acquisitions of new product candidates. To achieve profitability, we will need to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, and thereafter successfully manufacture, market and sell the products, or we will need to generate significant revenues from other sources, such as licensing collaborations. We may never generate sufficient revenues to become or remain profitable. We will need to raise additional capital to reach profitability and to complete the clinical trial work that is likely to be necessary to apply for approval of Viprinex. If we succeed in raising additional capital through a debt or equity financing transaction, it may adversely affect our stock price. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to curtail operations. Because we do not expect to operate profitably for several years, if at all, we will need to obtain substantial additional funds to sustain our operations and may need more capital than anticipated if we acquire and develop other product candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including: • the time and cost involved in completing the clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval for Viprinex; • the amount of royalties received from Merz for future sales of memantine; • the payments received pursuant to our agreements with Celtic; • the progress of our clinical development program; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the acquisition or licensing of new drug candidates; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish partnerships to commercialize Viprinex and any future product candidates; • future commercialization activities and arrangements; and • the cost of our research collaborations with the Buck Institute for Age Research. 17 Table of Contents Due to the delays we have experienced enrolling patients into our current Phase 3 clinical trials, we estimate that we do not have sufficient resources to complete two pivotal clinical trials that the FDA customarily requires for approval of new drugs. Therefore, we will need to license rights to Viprinex or otherwise raise capital by issuing securities. Licensing the rights to Viprinex may be disadvantageous as we would be required reduce our economic interest in the success of the product, if approved, diminishing our potential long-term return. Alternatively, if we raise capital by issuing additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or debt, regardless of the price at which these are issued, the value of the shares of our common stock then outstanding may be reduced. In addition, the terms of a licensing agreement or financing transaction may restrict our operations. We may not be able to raise capital on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital to fund future operations, we may be forced to reduce the scope of our operations or defer or abandon our clinical development program for Viprinex. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our stock price and could significantly impair our prospects. The auction rate securities we hold in our portfolio are currently not actively trading, and we may have to sell all or some of these securities at a loss to fund our operations. As of June 30, 2008, our investments included a variety of interest-bearing auction rate securities, or ARS, for which we paid a total of $13.2 million and are carrying at an estimated value of $11.9 million. These ARS investments are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rates at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or obtain immediate liquidity by selling such investments at par. Since February 2008, the auctions for our ARS have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and we are not able to access these funds until a future auction is successful, the investments are called by the issuer, or we find a buyer outside the auction process. Maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2030 to 2045. All of these ARS investments are investment grade quality and were in compliance with our investment policy at the time of acquisition. Because we are operating at a loss while funding our Phase 3 trials for Viprinex, we are unlikely to be able to hold these ARS investments to maturity and will likely need to sell them by early fiscal 2010, although we may choose to do so at an earlier date. We may experience a loss on sale, reducing the capital we have to continue to fund our business. Risks Related to Our Business The approval of any future product candidate by the FDA or other regulatory authorities is uncertain and will involve the commitment of substantial time and resources. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical research and clinical trials for each product candidate sufficient to demonstrate its safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA in the United States and other regulatory agencies in the countries where the product candidate will be marketed, if approved. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product, the disease or condition for which the product is in development and the regulations applicable to any particular product. The regulatory process typically also includes a review of the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and standards, including the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. The FDA can delay, limit or decline to grant approval for many reasons, including: • their determination that a product candidate is not safe or effective; • their determination that the manufacturing processes or facilities do not meet specified requirements; or • changes to their approval policies, guidelines or new regulations that affect us in an unfavorable manner. Any denial of approval or any delay or limitation on approval of any of our product candidates will substantially harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if Viprinex is approved for commercialization, it may not be successfully commercialized or generate meaningful product revenues for us. If Viprinex is approved for commercialization, we would be required either to market the drug directly, which would require the recruitment and training of a direct sales force, or to enter into a collaborative arrangement with a larger biotechnology or pharmaceutical company with an existing sales force to sell, market and distribute our products. Our current strategy is to retain some portion of the commercial rights to Viprinex, which may ultimately require us to build an internal sales force. However, we may not succeed in directly marketing Viprinex because the building of a direct sales force is costly, and we have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution. If we elect to license Viprinex to a larger company with an existing sales force, we would be required to share the revenues from commercialization and would lose a significant degree of control over the commercialization and further development of the drug. In addition, any licenses or collaborative arrangements that we may enter into may not be effective in generating meaningful product royalties or other revenues to us. 18 Table of Contents If Viprinex does not attain adequate market acceptance by health care professionals and patients, our business prospects and results of operations will suffer. Even if Viprinex receives regulatory approval for commercial sale, our revenues from sales of the product may not be significant and will depend on many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may affect revenue from Viprinex, if and when approved, include: • perception of physicians and other members of the health care community of its safety and efficacy relative to that of competing products; • cost-effectiveness; • patient and physician satisfaction with the product; • ability to successfully manufacture commercially and on a timely basis; • cost and availability of raw materials; • reimbursement policies of governments and third-party payors; • unfavorable publicity concerning Viprinex or similar drugs; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing products, including those of any future partners; • adverse event information relating to the product; • product labeling or product inserts required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries; • regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of the product; and • extent and effectiveness of sales and marketing and distribution support for the product. Our product revenues will be adversely affected if, due to these or other factors, Viprinex does not gain significant market acceptance. If government and third party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for Viprinex, if approved, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In the United States and other countries, our sales of Viprinex will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. These third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Reimbursement may not be available at all or sufficient enough to allow us to sell Viprinex or the other product candidates in our pipeline on a competitive and/or profitable basis. Even if we are granted approval for our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain that approval, which would reduce our revenues. Even if we are granted regulatory approval for a product candidate, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies can limit or withdraw approvals for a variety of reasons, often at their sole discretion. If we are ever able to obtain any product approvals, the approvals may be limited or withdrawn or we may be unable to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements. Limitations upon or withdrawals of any approvals we or our licensees obtain will reduce our revenues and harm our business and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents The royalty rate we receive for memantine product sales will decrease. We are party to a license and cooperation agreement with Merz and CMCC, pursuant to which we have rights to share in revenues from worldwide sales of memantine for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. In return for Merz’s agreement not to terminate the license and cooperation agreement before an effective date of January 1, 2010, we have agreed to a staged reduction in royalty rates on sales of memantine in the United States beginning in the third quarter of 2008. Additionally, we agreed to discontinue the royalty on sales of memantine for Alzheimer’s disease outside the United States as of the fourth quarter of 2007. This amendment will result in lower royalty payments to us. In addition, any ultimate termination of our agreement with Merz or any failure by Merz or its partners to successfully commercialize memantine or defend memantine against generic competition could reduce or eliminate the future royalties we are entitled to receive under the agreement, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We only have very limited control over the development and commercialization of XERECEPT, which we have sold to Celtic, and as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of this product candidate. In November 2005, we completed the sale of all our rights and assets related to XERECEPT to two newly-formed subsidiaries of Celtic. Under our agreement with the Celtic subsidiaries, we are eligible to receive milestone payments upon the achievement of certain regulatory objectives, and if XERECEPT is approved for commercial sale, we are eligible to receive profit-sharing payments on gross margins of XERECEPT in the United States and royalties on sales elsewhere in the world. However, because Celtic has assumed control of the clinical development of XERECEPT throughout the world, our ability to receive these payments largely depends on Celtic. Celtic controls the execution of clinical trials and will direct the final regulatory approval process and commercialization, if the product is approved. If Celtic is unable to successfully develop and market XERECEPT, we may not receive the potential development milestone payments and may not receive any royalty and/or profit-sharing payments, harming our financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition from other companies. Our competitors are generally larger biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, or NINDS, all of which have significantly greater financial resources and experience. In addition, larger companies that compete with us generally have greater manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution and managerial personnel resources than we do. Many of them also have much more experience than we do in clinical trials of new product candidates and in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. Accordingly, we may not be able to develop products that will be as safe, efficacious or as cost-effective as currently-marketed products or those products being developed by our competitors. In addition, others may develop, manufacture and market products that could compete with those that we are developing. For the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, the only currently approved drug treatment is marketed by Genentech, Inc., a much larger company. Additionally, other large pharmaceutical companies have pursued the development of treatments for ischemic stroke, including AstraZeneca and Forest. These companies have significantly more experience in developing new products and substantially greater financial resources. We may also face competition from medical devices that are currently used in the United States for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. If we do not continue to attract and retain key employees, our product development efforts and our operations will be impaired. We depend on a small number of key management and scientific and technical personnel. There is a shortage of skilled personnel in our industry, we face intense competition in our recruiting efforts, and we may not be able to attract or train qualified personnel. In addition, Paul E. Freiman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, has informed our board that he intends to retire as of December 31, 2008. While we have initiated a search for a successor, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement before his retirement. Changes in our management team can be disruptive to our business and, if our management team cannot work together effectively, our ability to manage our business will suffer. Further, the loss of any of our other key employees, including Dr. Warren W. Wasiewski, our Chief Medical Officer; David E. Levy, M.D., our Vice President, Clinical Development, Matthew M. Loar, our Chief Financial Officer, and Karl G. Trass, our Vice President, Regulatory Affairs & Quality Assurance, could impair our product development efforts and harm our business. Our employment agreements with these individuals provide for “at-will” employment, which means that they may terminate their employment with us at any time. Clinical trials or marketing of any of our potential products may expose us to liability claims from the use of such products, which our insurance may not cover. We currently have a limited amount of product liability insurance for our clinical trials, with coverage limits of $5 million per incident and $5 million in the aggregate. It is possible that our current insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities arising from our clinical trials. Our current product liability insurance does not cover the commercial sales of products, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain product liability insurance covering commercial sales if and when they commence or, if such insurance is obtained, that sufficient coverage can be acquired at a reasonable cost. Any inability to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit commercialization of any products we develop. 20 Table of Contents Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain or license patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent position of biotechnology firms generally is highly uncertain because: • patents involve complex legal and factual issues that have recently been the subject of much litigation; • no consistent policy has emerged from the United States Patent and Trademark Office regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents; and • others may independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our potential products, or design around the claims of any of our potential patented products. In addition, because of the time delay in patent approval and the secrecy afforded United States patent applications, we do not know if other applications, which might have priority over our applications, have been filed. As a result of all of these factors, there can be no assurance that patent applications relating to our potential products or processes will result in patents being issued, or that patents, if issued, will provide protection against competitors who may successfully challenge our patents, obtain patents that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, or be able to circumvent our patent position. While no infringement claims have been brought against us by third parties, and while we are not aware of any basis on which such claims could be made, any infringement claims that are brought by a third party, even if these claims were ultimately found to be without merit, would be costly to defend against and would likely interfere with our operations while the claim was pending. If we were unsuccessful in defending against any such claims, it may be necessary for us to license certain additional rights. These licenses may be costly and may not be available on terms we find acceptable, if at all. Accordingly, the unfavorable resolution of any patent infringement claim could adversely affect our operations and prospects. We have previously concluded that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls over accounting for certain complex transactions and other items, and we have restated financial statements from prior periods as a result of material weaknesses in our internal controls over accounting for highly complex issues and transactions. We record certain transactions in our financial statements using complex accounting rules. Although we believe that we currently have the necessary expertise and resources to ensure that we properly account for these transactions in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we have had deficiencies in our internal controls over accounting for complex transactions and other items. For example, in fiscal 2007 we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal controls over our financial reporting for stock options and accounts payable and accrued liabilities In fiscal 2006, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal controls following the restatement of our financial statements for fiscal 2005 and a portion of fiscal 2006. Although we have taken steps designed to remediate the weaknesses previously identified, the corrective actions taken may not be sufficient to correct the problems, or other accounting deficiencies could arise in the future. If our internal controls over financial reporting are deficient, we may not properly account for transactions which could lead to another restatement of our financial statements. A restatement could have a negative impact on our stock price and negatively affect the credibility of our financial reporting in future periods. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock has historically been low, even when compared to that of other biopharmaceutical companies. Because of our relatively low trading volume, our stock price can be highly volatile. Any large sales of our stock could have a negative effect on the stock price. Additional factors that may affect the price include: • announcements of the results of our clinical trials of Viprinex; • announcements of our plans regarding clinical trials of Viprinex; • announcements of the results of clinical trials of competitors or Celtic; • other evidence of the safety or efficacy of our products, or those of Celtic, Merz or its marketing partners, or our competitors (such as rt-PA for stroke); • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or our competitors; 21 Table of Contents • developments in patent or other proprietary rights of us or our competitors, including litigation; • our need for additional capital or fluctuations in our operating results; • government regulation and health care legislation; and • market conditions for life science companies’ stocks in general; We may not continue to meet the listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could result in our delisting and negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ Capital Market provides various continued listing requirements that a company must meet in order for its stock to continue trading on NASDAQ. The requirements state that a company’s stock may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days or if the company fails to maintain (i) stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million, (ii) total market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or (iii) net income from continuing operations of at least $500,000 in the latest fiscal year or in two of the last three fiscal years. If we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms acceptable or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current board and/or management. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our Board of Directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; and • providing for dilutive issuance of preferred stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” which can generally be triggered after a person or a group acquires 15% or more of our common stock. In addition, Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us, unless certain approvals are obtained. There may be issuances of shares of preferred stock in the future. Although we currently do not have preferred shares outstanding, the board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant holders preferred rights to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividends before dividends would be declared to common stockholders, and the right to the redemption of such shares, possibly together with a premium, prior to the redemption of the common stock. To the extent that we do issue preferred stock, the rights of holders of common stock could be impaired thereby, including without limitation, with respect to liquidation. 22 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report, including the sections entitled “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Business,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We may, in some cases, use words such as “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “potentially,” “will,” or “may,” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report may include statements about: • our ability to complete clinical trials for Viprinex; • the timing and results of the interim analysis for the clinical trials for Viprinex; • the timing and outcome of the final analysis for the current clinical trials of Viprinex; • the completion, announcement and success of any other clinical trials that we commence and the progress of those trials; • our receipt of regulatory approvals; • our ability to maintain and establish intellectual property rights in our product candidates; • whether any product candidate we commercialize is safer or more effective than other marketed products, treatments or therapies; • our development activities, including development of Viprinex, and projected expenditures; • our ability to have manufactured sufficient supplies of active pharmaceutical ingredient and drug product for clinical testing and commercialization; • our ability to obtain licenses to any necessary third-party intellectual property; • our ability to retain and hire necessary employees and appropriately staff our development programs; • our cash requirements; and • our financial performance. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These important factors include those that we discuss in this report under the caption “Risk Factors.” You should read these factors and the other cautionary statements made in this report as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. If one or more of these factors materialize, or if any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 