Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company cautions readers that its business activities involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently expected by management. The most significant of those risks are: • Risk of reduced selling prices and shipments associated with a cyclical industry. The steel industry historically has been a cyclical industry. A downturn in the domestic or global economy could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products, which likely would result in lower prices and shipments for such products. Such lower prices and shipments could impact the Company’s sales to the spot market or its efforts to negotiate higher prices with its contract customers. • Risk of reduced domestic automotive production. Although reduced from prior years, the automotive market remains a key element of the Company’s business, representing approximately 41% of its sales in 2006. Total domestic automotive production in 2006 was at a relatively high level on an historical basis. If domestic automotive production, in general, or by one or more of the Company’s major domestic customers in particular, were to be reduced significantly, it likely would negatively affect the Company’s sales and financial results. Such a reduction in automotive production could be 6 Table of Contents caused by a labor dispute between a customer of the Company and the union representing that customer’s employees. The Company understands that at least three of its major domestic automotive customers have labor contracts which expire in the second half of 2007. • Risk of increased global steel production and imports. Actions by the Company’s foreign competitors to increase production and/or exports to the United States could result in an increased supply of steel in the United States, which could result in lower prices for the Company’s products. In fact, foreign competitors, especially those in China, have substantially increased their production capacity in the last few years. In 2006, this increased foreign production contributed to a record high level of imports of foreign steel into the United States. A recent decision by the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) has increased the risk that a high level of imports will continue. That decision discontinued antidumping and countervailing duties on, among other products, corrosion resistant flat steel products imported from Australia, Canada, France and Japan, while allowing such duties to continue for another five years with respect to such products imported from Germany and Korea. The decision by the ITC to end the duties on corrosion resistant steel from the four countries noted above could result in an increase in the volume of such steel products imported into the United States, which could result in a reduction in the pricing of such products. Because a significant portion of the steel products produced and sold by the Company consists of various types of corrosion resistant flat steel products, such a decision has the potential to negatively impact the Company’s net sales and thus its income and cash flow. Appeals are expected to be filed following the ITC’s decision. At this time, the Company can neither predict the outcome of such appeals nor reliably estimate the financial impact, if any, on the Company of the discontinuation of antidumping and countervailing duties on corrosion resistant flat steel products from Australia, Canada, France and Japan. • Risk of changes in the cost of raw materials and energy. Approximately 65% of the Company’s shipments are pursuant to contracts having durations of six months or more. Approximately 50% of the Company’s shipments to contract customers include variable pricing mechanisms to adjust the price or to impose a surcharge based upon changes in certain raw material costs, while others contain fixed prices that do not allow a pass through of all of the raw material cost increases. Thus, the price at which the Company sells steel will not necessarily change in tandem with changes in its raw material and energy costs. As a result, a significant increase in raw material or energy costs could adversely impact the Company’s financial results. Raw material and energy costs have increased significantly during the past three years and did adversely impact the Company’s financial results. Significant increases in certain raw material costs are anticipated again in 2007. • Risk of production disruption at the Company. The Company operates its facilities at production levels at or near capacity. High levels of production are important to the Company’s financial results because they enable the Company to spread its fixed costs over a greater number of tons. Production disruptions could result in material negative impacts to the Company’s operations and financial results. Such production disruptions could be caused by unanticipated plant outages, equipment failures, transportation disruptions, or unanticipated disruptions in the supply of, or poor quality of, raw materials, particularly scrap, coal, coke, iron ore, alloys and purchased carbon slabs, or in the supply of natural gas. • Risks associated with the Company’s healthcare obligations. The Company provides healthcare coverage to its active employees and its retirees, as well as to certain members of their families. The Company is self-insured with respect to substantially all of its healthcare coverage. The cost of providing such healthcare coverage continues to increase. Continuing escalation in medical cost trend rates that affects active employee and retiree benefit expenses would adversely affect the Company’s financial results and could adversely affect the ability of the Company to provide those benefits. • Risks associated with the Company’s pension obligations. The Company’s pension trust is currently underfunded to meet its long-term obligations, primarily as a result of below expectation investment returns in the early years of this decade, as well as falling interest rates over that same 7 Table of Contents period. The extent of underfunding is directly affected by changes in interest rates and prices in the securities markets. It is also affected by the rate and age of employee retirements, along with other actuarial experiences compared to projections. These items affect pension plan assets and the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and expenses. Such changes could increase the cost to the Company of those obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results and its ability to meet those obligations. In addition, changes in the law, rules, or governmental regulations with respect to pension funding also could materially and adversely affect the cash flow of the Company to meet its pension and other benefit obligations. • Risks associated with major litigation, arbitrations, environmental issues and other contingencies. The Company has described several significant legal and environmental proceedings in Items 1 and 3 of this report. An adverse result in one or more of those proceedings could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. See discussion under Legal Proceedings section below. • Risks associated with environmental compliance. Due to the nature and extent of environmental issues affecting the Company’s operations and obligations, changes in application or scope of environmental regulations applicable to the Company could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial results. • Risk of not obtaining competitive labor agreements. The labor agreement with the union which represents hourly employees at the Middletown Works expired on February 28, 2006 and the Company currently is negotiating with the union to reach a new, competitive labor agreement. Such a new labor agreement is expected to enhance the Company’s operating costs, operating income and cash flow, but this is dependent on the Company’s success in the labor negotiations. The Company cannot predict at this time when a new, competitive labor agreement with the Middletown Works union will be reached, the extent to which the Company will be successful in the negotiations to reach that new agreement, or what the impact of such an agreement on the Company’s operating costs, operating income and cash flow will be. In addition, the existing labor agreement at the Company’s Rockport Works is set to expire September 30, 2007. The United Auto Workers represents the employees at this facility. There is the potential of a work stoppage at this location if the Company and the union cannot reach a timely agreement in contract negotiations. The Company expects to operate the facility in the event of a labor dispute, but there is a risk that such a labor dispute could result in a work stoppage and that, particularly if there were to be a work stoppage, the dispute could have a material impact on the Company’s operations and financial results. • Risks associated with operation of Middletown Works. The Middletown Works labor agreement expired on February 28, 2006 and the parties were unable prior to its expiration to reach a new agreement. Effective March 1, 2006, the Company exercised its right to prevent the represented employees at the Middletown Works from continuing to work without a labor agreement. The Company implemented a contingency plan to operate the Middletown Works with salaried employees and temporary replacement workers. The current operating levels of nearly every unit at the Middletown Works meet or exceed the levels achieved prior to March 1, 2006. Nonetheless, there continue to be risks associated with operating the Middletown Works with temporary replacement workers, including, without limitation, the possibility of increased costs and reduced production levels from time to time. While the previously listed items represent the most significant risks to the Company, the Company regularly monitors and reports all risks to Management by means of a formal Total Enterprise Risk Management program. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff comments. 8 Table of Contents 