Item 1A Risk Factors While we believe the risk factors described below are all the material risks currently facing our business, additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted by these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely impacted by any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We rely on a few major customers for a significant majority of our business, and the loss of any of these customers, significant changes in the prices, marketing allowances or other important terms provided to any of our major customers or adverse developments with respect to the financial condition of any of our major customers would reduce our net income and operating results. Our sales are concentrated among a few major customers. During fiscal 2007, sales to our five largest customers constituted 96% of our total sales, and sales to our largest customer constituted 60% of our total sales. Because our sales are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive, we are under ongoing pressure from our customers to offer lower prices, extended payment terms, increased marketing allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers. These customer demands have put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability, resulted in periodic contract renegotiation to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers and significantly increased our working capital needs. In addition, this customer concentration leaves us vulnerable to any adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers. The loss or significant decline of sales to any of our major customers would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results. Our contract with our largest customer is scheduled to expire in August 2008. At this point, we cannot provide assurance that this contract will be extended or estimate the impact any such contract extension would have on our reported results. If this contract is not renewed or we are required to provide significant customer concessions to renew this contract, our operating results would be materially and adversely impacted. The expansion of our offshore remanufacturing and logistic activities has put downward pressure on our near-term operating results and exposed us to increased risks associated with political or economic instability in the foreign countries where we conduct operations. To respond to customer pressures while maintaining or improving gross margins, we have expanded our overseas operations. Most recently, we established a remanufacturing operation near Tijuana, Mexico. While we anticipate that the remanufacturing costs in Mexico will ultimately be lower than those we have incurred in our Torrance, California facility, we have experienced remanufacturing inefficiencies associated with the ramp-up of our Mexican operations that adversely impacted our operating results during the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006. In addition, we believe that we will continue to incur duplicative logistics and general and administrative costs as we transition more of our activities from Torrance to Mexico. These inefficiencies are expected to have an adverse impact on our operating results through at least fiscal 2008. It is also possible that we could experience disruptions in remanufacturing and logistics activities as a result of the wind-down of our Torrance remanufacturing activities that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The expansion of our overseas operations also increases our exposure to political or economic instability in the host countries and to currency fluctuations. The complexity associated with the accounting for our operating results and the SEC’s review of our previously issued financial statements and core accounting principles may continue to result in fluctuations in our reported operating results and additional future restatements of our previously issued financial statements. Because we receive cores, a critical remanufacturing component, through customer returns and we offer marketing allowances and other incentives that impact revenue recognition, the accounting for our operations is more complex than that for many businesses the same size or larger. Approximately three years ago, the SEC commenced a review of our previously-filed financial statements. As we responded to the SEC’s questions, we undertook a comprehensive review of a number of our critical accounting policies, including several of our revenue recognition policies. This review resulted in the restatement of a number of our previously-issued annual and quarterly reports and required that we commit a significant level of management time and incur a significant level of professional fees. While we believe the SEC has completed this review, we have received no assurance in this regard. Our reported operating results could be subject to future accounting policy changes as a result of the SEC’s review of our public reports. In May 2007, the SEC contacted us and indicated they were conducting a review of the accounting principles applied by public companies that use cores acquired from customers in the production of their finished goods. We are cooperating with the SEC as their general review of these accounting issues proceeds. In addition, during the course of the preparation and review of our interim financial statements for the three and six months ended September 30, 2006, errors were identified in our application of generally accepted accounting principles. The correction of these errors required us to restate previously issued financial statements. In connection with our evaluation of our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the current fiscal year, we have determined that there are material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. 9 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in obtaining component parts could impair our business and adversely affect our operating results. In our remanufacturing processes, we obtain used cores, primarily through customer core returns, and component parts from third-party manufacturers. Historically, the level of core returns from customers together with purchases from core brokers have provided us with an adequate supply of this key component. If there was a significant disruption in the supply of cores, whether as a result of increased core acquisitions by existing or new competitors or otherwise, our operating activities would be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, a number of the other components used in the remanufacturing process are available from a very limited number of suppliers. In fiscal 2007, we received 22% of our raw materials from a single supplier. We are, as a result, vulnerable to any disruption in component supply, and any meaningful disruption in this supply would materially and adversely impact our operating results. Increases in the market prices of key component raw materials could negatively impact our profitability. In light of the long-term, continuous pressure on pricing which we have experienced from our major customers, we may not be able to recoup the higher prices which raw materials, particularly aluminum and copper, may command in the market-place. We believe the impact of higher raw material prices, which is outside our control, is mitigated to some extent because we recover a substantial portion of our raw materials from cores returned to us by our customers. However, we are unable to determine what adverse impact, if any, sustained raw material price increases may have on our profitability. Substantial and potentially increasing competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. While we believe we are well-positioned in the market for remanufactured alternators and starters, this market is very competitive. In addition, other overseas manufacturers, particularly those located in China, are increasing their operations and could become a significant competitive force in the future. We may not be successful competing against other companies, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources at their disposal. Increased competition could put additional pressure on us to reduce prices or take other actions which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our financial results are affected by alternator and starter failure rates that are outside our control. Our operating results are affected by alternator and starter failure rates. These failure rates are impacted by a number of factors outside our control, including alternator and starter designs that have resulted in greater reliability, consumers driving fewer miles as a result of high gasoline prices and mild weather. A reduction in the failure rates of alternators or starters would adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced significant variations in our quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations have resulted from many factors, including shifting customer demands, shifts in the demand and pricing for our products and general economic conditions, including changes in prevailing interest rates. Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include the timing and level of marketing allowances provided to our customers, differences between the level of projected sales to a particular customer and the actual sales during the relevant period, pricing strategies, the mix of products sold during a reporting period, fluctuations in the level of core returns during the period and general market and competitive conditions. Our bank may not waive future defaults under our credit agreement. Over the past several years, we have violated a number of the financial and other covenants contained in our bank credit agreement. To this point, the bank has been willing to waive these covenant defaults and to do so without imposing any meaningful cost or penalty on us. If we fail to meet the financial covenants or the other obligations set forth in our bank credit agreement in the future, there is no assurance that the bank will waive any such defaults. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. While our recently completed private placement of common stock and warrants has strengthened our capital position, we expect that our indebtedness may increase substantially from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, marketing allowances provided to customers, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our indebtedness could materially affect our business because (i) a portion of our cash flow must be used to service debt rather than finance our operations, (ii) it may eventually impair our ability to obtain financing in the future and (iii) it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changes in business and economic conditions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. 10 Table of Contents Our largest shareholder has the ability to influence all matters requiring the approval of our board of directors and our shareholders. As of June 1, 2007, Mel Marks, our founder and Board member, held 14.5% of our outstanding common stock, and we believe other members of the Marks family held an additional 4.6% of our outstanding stock. As a result of his holdings, Mel Marks has the ability to exercise substantial influence over us and his interests (and those of his family) may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Our common stock is thinly traded and this market does not provide shareholders with a meaningful degree of liquidity. Our common stock is currently traded on the Pink Sheets. Trading on the Pink Sheets can be sporadic, and the average trading volume is approximately 3,000 to 4,000 shares per day. As a result, Pink Sheet trading does not provide any meaningful liquidity to investors. While we will continue to seek exchange listing for our shares, our efforts to date have not been successful, and there is no assurance that our current efforts will succeed. Our rights agreement contains provisions that could hinder or prevent a change in control of our company. In February 1998, we established a rights plan, which expires in February 2008. Under this plan, in certain circumstances, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock, each right not owned by the person acquiring this stock interest would entitle its holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock having a value equal to twice the exercise price of the right. These rights make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a controlling interest in us without our Board’s approval. As a result, the existence of the rights could have an adverse impact on the market for our common stock. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Based upon the closing price of our common stock on September 29, 2006, we are now required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). Section 404 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and certify whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent accountants are also required to express an opinion with respect to the effectiveness of our internal controls. In connection with our evaluation of Section 404 compliance for the current fiscal year, we have determined that there are material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. We are exposed to market risk from material movements in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate. As a result of our growing operations in Mexico, our primary risk relates to changes in the rates between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso. To mitigate this currency risk, in August 2005 we began to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Mexican pesos. The extent to which we use forward foreign exchange contracts is periodically reviewed in light of our estimate of market conditions and the terms and length of anticipated requirements. The use of derivative financial instruments allows us to reduce our exposure to the risk that the eventual net cash outflow resulting from funding the expenses of the foreign operations will be materially affected by changes in the exchange rates. We do not engage in currency speculation or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. These contracts expire in a year or less. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts is accounted for as an increase or offset to general and administrative expenses in current period earnings. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that were issued more than 180 days before the end of fiscal 2007, which we believe remain unresolved. Approximately three years ago, however, the SEC commenced a review of our previously-filed financial statements. While we believe the SEC has completed this review, we have received no assurance in this regard. 