Item 1A Risk Factors While we believe the risk factors described below are all the material risks currently facing our business, additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted by these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely impacted by any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We rely on a few major customers for a significant majority of our business, and the loss of any of these customers, significant changes in the prices or other important terms provided to any of our major customers or adverse developments with respect to the financial condition of any of our major customers could reduce our net income and operating results. Our sales are concentrated among a few major customers. During fiscal 2006, sales to our three largest customers constituted 92% of our total sales. Because our sales are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive, we are under ongoing pressure from our customers to offer lower prices, extended payment terms, increased marketing allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers. These customer demands put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability and have resulted in the periodic renegotiation of our customer contracts to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers. In addition, this customer concentration leaves us vulnerable to any adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers. The loss or significant decline of sales to any of our major customers would have a material adverse impact on our profitability. The expansion of our offshore remanufacturing activities has put downward pressure on our near-term operating results and exposed us to increased risks associated with political or economic instability in any of the foreign countries where we conduct operations. To respond to customer pressures while maintaining or improving gross margins, we have expanded our overseas operations. Most recently, we established a remanufacturing operation near Tijuana, Mexico. While we anticipate that the remanufacturing costs in Mexico will ultimately be lower than those we have incurred in our Torrance, California facility, we have experienced meaningful remanufacturing inefficiencies associated with the ramp-up of our Mexican operations that have adversely impacted our operating results. In addition, we believe that we will continue to incur duplicative remanufacturing and general and administrative costs as we transition more of our activities from Torrance to Mexico. These inefficiencies are expected to have an adverse impact on our operating results through fiscal 2008. It also possible that we could experience remanufacturing disruptions as a result of the wind-down of our Torrance remanufacturing activities that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The expansion of our overseas operations also increases our exposure to political or economic instability in the host countries and to currency fluctuations. Interruptions or delays in obtaining component parts could impair our business. In our remanufacturing processes, we obtain used cores, primarily through customer core returns, and component parts from third-party manufacturers. Historically, the level of core returns from customers together with purchases from core brokers have provided us with an adequate supply of this key component. If there was a significant disruption in the supply of cores, whether as a result of increased core acquisitions by existing or new competitors or otherwise, our operating activities would be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, a number of the other components used in the remanufacturing process are available from a very limited number of suppliers. We are, as a result, vulnerable to any disruption in component supply, and any meaningful disruption in this supply would materially and adversely impact our operating results. Increases in the market prices of key component raw materials could negatively impact our profitability. In light of the long-term, continuous pressure on pricing which we have experienced, particularly from our retail customers, we may not be in a position to recoup the significantly higher prices which raw materials, particularly aluminum and copper, are currently commanding in the market-place. We believe that this situation, which is largely outside our control, is mitigated to some extent because we recover a substantial portion of the material we use in our products from cores which are returned by our customers. However, we are unable to determine what adverse impact, if any, such sustained and further price increases may have on us and on our profitability. 9 Table of Contents The complexity associated with the accounting for our operating results and the SEC review of our previously issued financial statements may continue to result in fluctuations in our reported operating results. Because we receive a critical remanufacturing component through customer returns and we offer marketing allowances and other incentives that impact revenue recognition, the accounting for our operations is more complex than that for many businesses the same size or larger. Approximately two years ago, the SEC commenced a review of our previously-filed financial statements. As we responded to the SEC’s questions, we undertook a comprehensive review of a number of our critical accounting policies, including several of our revenue recognition policies. This review resulted in the restatement of a number of our previously issued annual and quarterly reports and required that we commit a significant level of management time and incur a significant level of professional fees. While we believe the SEC has completed its review, we have received no assurance in this regard from the SEC. As a result, our reported operating results could be subject to future accounting policy changes made as the SEC’s review of our previously filed public reports proceeds. In addition, our reported operating results have been and may in the future be restated to correct for errors in our application of generally accepted accounting principles. Substantial competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. While we believe we are well-positioned in the market for remanufactured alternators and starters, this market is very competitive. We may not be successful competing against other companies, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources at their disposal. Increased competition could put additional pressure on us to reduce prices or take other actions which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our financial results are affected by alternator and starter failure rates that are outside our control. Our operating results are affected by alternator and starter failure rates. These failure rates are impacted by a number of factors outside our control, including alternator and starter designs that have resulted in greater reliability, consumers driving fewer miles as a result of high gasoline prices and mild weather. A reduction in the failure rates of alternators or starters would adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced significant variations in our quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations have resulted from many factors, including shifting customer demands, shifts in the demand and pricing for our products and general economic conditions, including changes in prevailing interest rates. Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which may be outside of our control. These factors include the timing and level of marketing allowances provided to our customers, differences between the level of projected sales to a particular customer and the actual sales during the relevant period, pricing strategies, the mix of products sold during a reporting period, fluctuations in the level of core returns during the period and general market and competitive conditions. The bank may not waive a future default under our credit agreement. Over the past several years, we have violated a number of the financial and other covenants contained in our bank credit agreement. To this point, the bank has been willing to waive these covenant defaults and to do so without imposing any meaningful cost or penalty on us. Although we are currently in compliance with our bank covenants, if we fail to meet the financial covenants or the other obligations set forth in our bank credit agreement in the future, there is no assurance that the bank will waive any such defaults. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. As of March 31, 2006, our outstanding indebtedness was $14,449,000, and we had cash and cash equivalents of $400,000. We expect that our indebtedness may increase substantially from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, marketing allowances provided to customers, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our consolidated indebtedness could materially affect our business because (i) a portion of our cash flow must be used to service debt rather than finance our operations, (ii) it may eventually impair our ability to obtain financing in the future and (iii) it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changes in business and economic conditions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. 10 Table of Contents Our largest shareholder has the ability to influence all matters requiring the approval of our board of directors and our shareholders. As of July 10, 2006, Mel Marks, our founder and Board member, held 21.8% of our outstanding common stock, and other members of the Marks family held an additional 6.6% of our outstanding stock. As a result of his holdings, Mel Marks has the ability to exercise substantial influence over us and his interests (and those of his family) may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Our rights agreement contains provisions that could hinder or prevent a change in control of our company. In February 1998, we established a rights plan. Under this plan, in certain circumstances, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock, each right not owned by the person acquiring this stock interest would entitle its holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock having a value equal to twice the exercise price of the right. These rights make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a controlling interest in us without our Board’s approval. As a result, the existence of the rights could have an adverse impact on the market for our common stock. 