Item 1A. Risk Factors While we believe the risk factors described below are all the material risks currently facing our business, additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted by these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely impacted by any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We rely on a few major customers for a significant majority of our business, and the loss of any of these customers, significant changes in the prices, marketing allowances or other important terms provided to any of our major customers or adverse developments with respect to the financial condition of any of our major customers would reduce our net income and operating results. Our consolidated net sales are concentrated among a small number of large customers. During fiscal 2013, sales to our three largest customers constituted approximately 72% of our consolidated net sales, and sales to our largest customer constituted approximately 41% of our consolidated net sales. We are under ongoing pressure from our major customers to offer lower prices, extended payment terms, increased marketing allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers because our sales to these customers are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive. These customer demands have put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability, resulted in periodic contract renegotiation to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers and significantly increased our working capital needs. In addition, this customer concentration leaves us vulnerable to any adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers. The loss or significant decline of sales to any of our major customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The bankruptcy process relating to Fenco may disrupt our relationships with customers, which could harm our business. We have attempted to minimize the adverse effect of the bankruptcy of Fenco on our relationships with our customers, some of whom are also customers of Fenco. Nonetheless, the full extent to which the bankruptcy process relating to Fenco will impact our relationships with our customers may not be known for some time. Our relationships with our customers may be adversely impacted, and our operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to issue shares of our common stock or pay cash pursuant to the terms of our guarantee of obligations to a supplier of Fenco, which could result in dilution or reduce our liquidity. In August 2012, we entered into an agreement with a supplier of Fenco that provided credit up to $22,000,000 related to the purchase of automotive parts and components by Fenco. After July 1, 2014, the supplier has the right to exercise an option under which the supplier may settle up to $8,000,000 of Fenco’s obligations in exchange, at our option, for (i) shares of our common stock valued at $7.75 per share, subject to certain adjustments, or (ii) cash in an amount equal to 135% of the amount of the outstanding obligations. The supplier also has the right to sell accrued interest to us for shares of our common stock at a price, subject to certain adjustments, that is the lower of (i) $7.75 per share and (ii) 105% of the market value of our common stock, which market value is defined in the terms of the guarantee. As a result of these obligations, we could be liable for up to $22,000,000 of cash and issue an aggregate of 2,604,600 shares of common stock. This liability could reduce our liquidity if we do not refinance it, and could also be dilutive to shareholders if such shares are issued. The principal amount is due under the Fenco credit agreement but payment is subordinated to the Parent Company Financing Agreement (as defined herein). 10 Table of Contents Our offshore remanufacturing and logistic activities expose us to increased political and economic risks and place a greater burden on management to achieve quality standards. Our overseas operations, especially our operations in Mexico, increase our exposure to political, criminal or economic instability in the host countries and to currency fluctuations. Risks are inherent in international operations, including: · exchange controls and currency restrictions; · currency fluctuations and devaluations; · changes in local economic conditions; · repatriation restrictions (including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries); · global sovereign uncertainty and hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; · laws and regulations relating to export and import restrictions; · exposure to government actions; and · exposure to local political or social unrest including resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our offshore activities and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our overall success as a business depends, in part, upon our ability to manage our foreign operations. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, and failure to do so could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Interruptions or delays in obtaining component parts could impair our business and adversely affect our operating results. In our remanufacturing processes, we obtain Used Cores, primarily through the core exchange program with our customers, and component parts from third-party manufacturers. Historically, the Used Cores returned from customers together with purchases from core brokers have provided us with an adequate supply of Used Cores. If there was a significant disruption in the supply of Used Cores, whether as a result of increased Used Core acquisitions by existing or new competitors or otherwise, our operating activities would be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, a number of the other components used in the remanufacturing process are available from a very limited number of suppliers. We are, as a result, vulnerable to any disruption in component supply, and any meaningful disruption in this supply would materially and adversely impact our operating results. Increases in the market prices of key component raw materials could negatively impact our profitability. In light of the long-term, continuous pressure on pricing which we have experienced from our major customers, we may not be able to recoup the higher prices which raw materials, particularly aluminum and copper, may command in the marketplace. We believe the impact of higher raw material prices, which is outside our control, is mitigated to some extent because we recover a substantial portion of our raw materials from Used Cores returned to us by our customers through the core exchange program. However, we are unable to determine what adverse impact, if any, sustained raw material price increases may have on our profitability. Substantial and potentially increasing competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. While we believe we are well-positioned in the aftermarket for remanufactured products, this market is very competitive. In addition, other overseas manufacturers, particularly those located in China, are increasing their operations and could become a significant competitive force in the future. We may not be successful competing against other companies, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources at their disposal. Increased competition could put additional pressure on us to reduce prices or take other actions which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our financial results are affected by automotive parts failure rates that are outside our control. Our operating results are affected by automotive parts failure rates. These failure rates are impacted by a number of factors outside our control, including product designs that have resulted in greater reliability, consumers driving fewer miles as a result of both high gasoline prices and the slowdown in the U.S. economy, and the average age of vehicles on the road. A reduction in the failure rates of automotive parts would adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced significant variations in our annual and quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations have resulted from many factors, including shifts in the demand and pricing for our products and general economic conditions, including changes in prevailing interest rates. Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include the timing and level of marketing allowances provided to our customers, differences between the level of projected sales to a particular customer and the actual sales during the relevant period, pricing strategies, the mix of products sold during a reporting period, fluctuations in the level of Used Core returns during the period, and general market and competitive conditions. Our lenders may not waive future defaults under our credit agreements. Over the past several years, we have violated a number of the financial and other covenants contained in our credit agreements. To this point, our lenders have been willing to waive these covenant defaults and to do so without imposing any significant cost or penalty on us. If we fail to meet the financial covenants or the other obligations set forth in our credit agreements in the future, there is no assurance that our lenders will waive any such defaults. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. Our indebtedness may increase substantially from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, marketing allowances provided to customers, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our indebtedness could materially affect our business because (i) a portion of our cash flow must be used to service debt rather than finance our operations, (ii) it may eventually impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, and (iii) it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changes in business and economic conditions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. Our stock price may decline substantially as a result of the volatile nature of the stock market and other factors beyond our control. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including (i) our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter, (ii) downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates, (iii) market perceptions concerning our future earnings prospects, (iv) public or private sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, and (v) adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. Our stock price has ranged from $3.96 to $15.86 per share since the acquisition of Fenco on May 6, 2011. 12 Table of Contents Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. We are exposed to market risk from material movements in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate. As a result of our extensive operations in Mexico, our primary risk relates to changes in the rates between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso. To mitigate this currency risk, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Mexican pesos. We also enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Chinese yuan in order to mitigate risk related to our purchases and payments to our Chinese vendors. The extent to which we use forward foreign exchange contracts is periodically reviewed in light of our estimate of market conditions and the terms and length of anticipated requirements. The use of derivative financial instruments allows us to reduce our exposure to the risk that the eventual net cash outflow resulting from funding the expenses of the foreign operations will be materially affected by changes in the exchange rates. We do not engage in currency speculation or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. These contracts expire in a year or less. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts is accounted for as an increase or decrease to general and administrative expenses in current period earnings. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions, (iii) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, (iv) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations, (v) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, (vi) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses, and (vii) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Continuing weakness in conditions in the global credit markets and macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing weakness in the financial condition of financial institutions has resulted in significant constraints on liquidity and availability in global credit markets and more stringent borrowing terms. Modest economic growth in most major industrial countries in the world and uncertain prospects for continued growth threaten to cause further tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms, and higher volatility in interest rates. The persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our borrowings and the availability, terms and cost of such borrowings. In addition, deterioration in the U.S. economy could adversely affect our corporate results, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our reliance on foreign suppliers for certain automotive parts poses various risks. A significant portion of certain automotive parts are imported from suppliers located outside the U.S., including various countries in Asia. As a result, we are subject to various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing products from abroad, such as: ● significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; ● imposition of duties, taxes, tariffs or other charges on imports; ● imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our product that may be imported into the U.S. from countries or regions where we do business; ● financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our product is manufactured; ● potential recalls or cancellations of orders for any product that does not meet our quality standards; ● disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices; ● political or military conflict involving the U.S., which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and an increase in transportation costs; ● heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; ● natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; ● inability of our non-U.S. suppliers to obtain adequate credit or access liquidity to finance their operations; and ● our ability to enforce any agreements with our foreign suppliers. 13 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, because we depend on independent third parties to manufacture a significant portion of certain automotive products, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with such manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality controls and failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from our acquisition of Fenco and cannot assure that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effective on our stock price. Management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting at Fenco that affected our financial statements for the first two quarters of fiscal 2013. This material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting was related to the following factors: the inadequacy of systems required to segregate and account for certain transactions accurately; the failure of financial policies and procedures at Fenco to provide for effective oversight and review of the reconciliation of accounts at month or quarter ends; and the inadequacy of the overall accounting skill set at Fenco for diligent and consistent performance of key accounting controls. These factors resulted in Fenco’s inability to complete the financial closing process on a timely and accurate basis. As a result of our failure to meet our periodic reporting obligations in a timely manner, we had received notices from the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation ("NASDAQ”) regarding our failure to maintain the listing standards for our common stock. We were in full compliance with the NASDAQ listing standards in connection with the filing of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 in December 2012. We cannot assure that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations (which may result in our failure to maintain the listing standards for our common stock) or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations (which may result in our failure to maintain the listing standards for our common stock) and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Impairment of charges relating to goodwill and long-lived assets may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and results of operations. We regularly monitor our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment indicators. In conducting our goodwill impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each our business segments to the related net book value. In conducting our impairment analysis of long-lived assets, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets to the related net book values. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may also incur charges in connection with the sale of assets or operations, or revaluations of assets as we change our operations. 14 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2013, we identified the following impairment indicators in our undercar product line segment: (i) continued losses from Fenco operations, (ii) lower forecasted future revenues, (iii) negative working capital position, (iv) additional financing needs, and (v) the anticipated filing for bankruptcy. As a result of the annual goodwill impairment analysis and intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we concluded that goodwill and intangible assets for our undercar product line segment were fully impaired, therefore, we recorded a non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge of $68,356,000 and $16,330,000 during fiscal 2013, respectively. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. Merchandise manufactured overseas represents a part of our total product purchases. A disruption in the shipping or cost of such merchandise may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Merchandise from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Risks associated with our reliance on imported merchandise include disruptions in the shipping and importation or increase in the costs of imported products. For example, common risks may be: · raw material shortages; · work stoppages; · strikes and political unrest; · problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; · increased customs inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments; · economic crises; · international disputes and wars; · loss of “most favored nation” trading status by the United States in relations to a particular foreign country; · import duties; · import quotas and other trade sanctions; and · increases in shipping rates. Products manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S. and other countries are subject to import restrictions and duties. Our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to the ability of the consolidated companies (as defined herein) to continue as a going concern as of March 31, 2013 as a result of losses from its Fenco operations. During May 2013, Fenco appointed a new board of independent directors, hired an independent chief restructuring officer and all its previously existing officers resigned from FAPL. As a result of the loss of control of Fenco, we will likely deconsolidate the financial statements of Fenco from our consolidated financial statements during the first quarter of fiscal 2014. On June 10, 2013, Fenco filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. As of March 31, 2013, Fenco’s financial statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect future adverse effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 15 Table of Contents As a result of these challenges with Fenco, management has adjusted its focus. Going forward MPA’s focus will not include Fenco but will continue to be on its rotating electrical business and evaluating other opportunities. The outlook for rotating electrical continues to be strong with over 240 million vehicles on the road with an average age of over 10 years. Vehicles older than 7 years generally experience higher replacement rates for the alternators and starters. As such these metrics indicate an ongoing growth opportunity for rotating electrical. MPA’s rotating electrical business has continued to have strong liquidity which will be further enhanced by the tax benefits associated with the write-off of the Fenco investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 