Item 1A Risk Factors While we believe the risk factors described below are all the material risks currently facing our business, additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted by these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely impacted by any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We rely on a few major customers for a significant majority of our business, and the loss of any of these customers, significant changes in the prices, marketing allowances or other important terms provided to any of our major customers or adverse developments with respect to the financial condition of any of our major customers would reduce our net income and operating results. Our sales are concentrated among a few major customers. During fiscal 2009, sales to our five largest customers constituted 92% of our net sales, and sales to our largest customer constituted 49% of our net sales. Because our sales are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive, we are under ongoing pressure from our customers to offer lower prices, extended payment terms, increased marketing allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers. These customer demands have put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability, resulted in periodic contract renegotiation to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers and significantly increased our working capital needs. In addition, this customer concentration leaves us vulnerable to any adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers. The loss or significant decline of sales to any of our major customers would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results. The costs associated with expansion of our offshore remanufacturing and logistic activities has put downward pressure on our near-term operating results. These activities also expose us to increased political and economic risks and place a greater burden on management to achieve quality standards. To respond to customer and competitive pressures while maintaining or improving gross margins over time, we have moved an increasing portion of our remanufacturing operations to lower cost countries outside the United States. While the remanufacturing costs in Mexico are lower than those we have incurred in our Torrance, California facility, we experienced various but decreasing inefficiencies associated with our Mexican operations that adversely impacted our operating results during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The expansion of our overseas operations, especially our operations in Tijuana, Mexico, also increases our exposure to political, criminal or economic instability in the host countries and to currency fluctuations. The complexity associated with the accounting for our operating results may continue to result in fluctuations in our reported operating results. Because we receive most Used Cores, a critical remanufacturing component, through the core exchange program with our customers and we offer marketing allowances and other incentives that impact revenue recognition, the accounting for our operations is more complex than that for many businesses the same size or larger. We previously cited and have now remediated our accounting treatment in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that resulted in restatements to our financial statements. Steps taken to correct the previously issued financial statements included a review of authoritative accounting literature and consultation with accounting experts at the SEC and with external accountants. Upon completion of this review, we corrected our treatment related to accounting for core inventory and revenue recognition. Interruptions or delays in obtaining component parts could impair our business and adversely affect our operating results. In our remanufacturing processes, we obtain Used Cores, primarily through the core exchange program with our customers, and component parts from third-party manufacturers. Historically, the level of Used Core returns from customers together with purchases from core brokers have provided us with an adequate supply of this key 10 component. If there was a significant disruption in the supply of Used Cores, whether as a result of increased Used Core acquisitions by existing or new competitors or otherwise, our operating activities would be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, a number of the other components used in the remanufacturing process are available from a very limited number of suppliers. In fiscal 2009, we purchased 25% of our raw materials from a single supplier. We are, as a result, vulnerable to any disruption in component supply, and any meaningful disruption in this supply would materially and adversely impact our operating results. Increases in the market prices of key component raw materials could negatively impact our profitability. In light of the long-term, continuous pressure on pricing which we have experienced from our major customers, we may not be able to recoup the higher prices which raw materials, particularly aluminum and copper, may command in the market-place. We believe the impact of higher raw material prices, which is outside our control, is mitigated to some extent because we recover a substantial portion of our raw materials from Used Cores returned to us by our customers through the core exchange program. However, we are unable to determine what adverse impact, if any, sustained raw material price increases may have on our profitability. Substantial and potentially increasing competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. While we believe we are well-positioned in the market for remanufactured alternators and starters, this market is very competitive. In addition, other overseas manufacturers, particularly those located in China, are increasing their operations and could become a significant competitive force in the future. We may not be successful competing against other companies, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources at their disposal. Increased competition could put additional pressure on us to reduce prices or take other actions which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our financial results are affected by alternator and starter failure rates that are outside our control. Our operating results are affected by alternator and starter failure rates. These failure rates are impacted by a number of factors outside our control, including alternator and starter designs that have resulted in greater reliability and consumers driving fewer miles as a result of both high gasoline prices and the slowdown in the U.S. economy. A reduction in the failure rates of alternators or starters would adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced significant variations in our annual and quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations have resulted from many factors, including shifting customer demands, shifts in the demand and pricing for our products and general economic conditions, including changes in prevailing interest rates. Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include the timing and level of marketing allowances provided to our customers, differences between the level of projected sales to a particular customer and the actual sales during the relevant period, pricing strategies, the mix of products sold during a reporting period, fluctuations in the level of Used Core returns during the period, and general market and competitive conditions. Our bank may not waive future defaults under our credit agreement. Over the past several years, we have violated a number of the financial and other covenants contained in our bank credit agreement. To this point, the bank has been willing to waive these covenant defaults and to do so without imposing any significant cost or penalty on us. If we fail to meet the financial covenants or the other obligations set forth in our bank credit agreement in the future, there is no assurance that the bank will waive any such defaults. 11 Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. Our indebtedness may increase substantially from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, marketing allowances provided to customers, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our indebtedness could materially affect our business because (i) a portion of our cash flow must be used to service debt rather than finance our operations, (ii) it may eventually impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, and (iii) it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changes in business and economic conditions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our largest shareholder has the ability to influence all matters requiring the approval of our Board of Directors and our shareholders. As of June 8, 2009, Mel Marks, our founder and member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned 11.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of his holdings, Mel Marks has the ability to exercise substantial influence over us and his interests may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. Our stock price may decline substantially as a result of the volatile nature of the stock market and other factors beyond our control. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including (i) our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter, (ii) downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates, (iii) market perceptions concerning our future earnings prospects, (iv) public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, and (v) adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and certify whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent accountants are also required to express an opinion with respect to the effectiveness of our internal controls. We expect our SOX compliance work will continue to require significant commitment of management time and the incurrence of significant general and administrative expenses. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. We are exposed to market risk from material movements in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate. As a result of our growing operations in Mexico, our primary risk relates to changes in the rates between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso. To mitigate this currency risk, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Mexican pesos. The extent to which we use forward foreign exchange contracts is periodically reviewed in light of our estimate of market conditions and the terms and length of anticipated requirements. The use of derivative financial instruments allows us to reduce our exposure to the risk that the eventual net cash outflow resulting from funding the expenses of the foreign operations will be materially affected by changes in the exchange rates. We do not engage in currency speculation or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. These contracts expire in a year or less. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts is accounted for as an increase or decrease to general and administrative expenses in current period earnings. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, (ii) the 12 challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions, (iii) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, (iv) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations, (v) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, (vi) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses, and (vii) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Deteriorating conditions in the global credit markets and macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Over the past year, significant deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions has resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability in global credit markets and in higher short-term borrowing costs, and more stringent borrowing terms. Recessionary conditions in the global economy threaten to cause further tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms, and higher volatility in interest rates. The persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our borrowings and the availability, terms and cost of such borrowings. In addition, further deterioration in the U.S. economy could adversely affect our corporate results, which could adversely affect our operating results. Uncertainty surrounding General Motors’ filing for bankruptcy protection. We have been notified by General Motors (“GM”) and the Bankruptcy Court that we are an “Essential Vendor” to GM. As such, we expect that we will receive uninterrupted payment of our pre- and post-filing GM receivables. Inevitably, we anticipate some uncertainty surrounding GM as the bankruptcy process proceeds, and there can be no assurance that actions taken by other interested parties, including consumers, will not have a continuing detrimental effect on our relationship or level of continuing business with GM. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments In response to a comment letter we received on January 30, 2009 from the SEC, we are engaged in discussions with the SEC staff concerning the filing of certain customer agreements as material contracts with the SEC. Currently, we have filed what we believe to be our material contract with our largest customer. The SEC staff has indicated that we should file all our customer contracts that we are substantially dependent upon. 