Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise publicly disclosed by the Company. Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced, and expect to experience in future periods, fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current gross margins or profitability in the future. A significant portion of our net revenues in each fiscal quarter results from orders booked in that quarter. Orders placed by major customers are typically based on their forecasted sales and inventory levels for our products. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may be the result of: • the timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • gain or loss of significant customers; • customer policies pertaining to desired inventory levels of our products; • negotiated rebates and extended payment terms; • changes in our ability to anticipate in advance the mix of customer orders; • levels of inventory our customers require us to maintain in our inventory hub locations; • the availability and sale of new products; • shifts or changes in technology; • changes in the mix or average selling prices of our products; 5 Table of Contents • variations in manufacturing capacities, efficiencies and costs; • the availability and cost of components, including silicon chips; • variations in product development costs, especially related to advanced technologies; • variations in operating expenses; • changes in effective income tax rates, including those resulting from changes in tax laws; • our ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of our OEM customers; • actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; • the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; • gains or losses related to our marketable securities; • changes in accounting rules; • changes in our accounting policies; • general economic and other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders and capital spending; or • changes in the global economy that impact information technology, or IT, spending. Our quarterly results of operations are also influenced by competitive factors, including the pricing and availability of our products and our competitors’ products. Portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce in a short period of time. If net revenues do not meet our expectations, our fixed expenses could adversely affect our gross profit and net income until net revenues increase or until such fixed expenses are reduced to an appropriate level. Furthermore, communications regarding new products and technologies could cause our customers to defer or cancel purchases of our products. Order deferrals by our customers, delays in our introduction of new products, and longer than anticipated design-in cycles for our products have in the past adversely affected our quarterly results of operations. Due to these factors, as well as other unanticipated factors, it is likely that in some future quarter or quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, and as a result, the price of our common stock could significantly decrease. We expect gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of gross margin may not be sustainable. Our recent level of gross margin may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • changes in product mix; • increased price competition; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors, including products with price, performance or feature advantages; • our inability to reduce manufacturing-related or component costs; • entry into new markets or the acquisition of new businesses; • amortization and impairments of purchased intangible assets; • sales discounts; • increases in material, labor or overhead costs; • excess inventory and inventory holding charges; • changes in distribution channels; 6 Table of Contents • increased warranty costs; and • how well we execute our business strategy and operating plans. Our revenues may be affected by changes in IT spending levels. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions and reduced global IT spending rates have adversely affected the markets in which we operate. Certain of our large customers are reporting weaknesses in particular markets and geographies, which may adversely affect our revenues. We are unable to predict changes in general economic conditions and when global IT spending rates will be affected. Furthermore, even if IT spending rates increase, we cannot be certain that the market for Storage Area Network (SAN) and server fabric infrastructure solutions will be positively impacted. If there are future reductions in either domestic or international IT spending rates, or if IT spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Several factors could impact our stock price including, but not limited to: • differences between our actual operating results and the published expectations of analysts; • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or us; • conditions in the markets in which we operate; • changes in market projections by industry forecasters; • changes in estimates of our earnings by industry analysts; • operating results or forecasts of our major customers or competitors; • overall market conditions for high technology equities; • rumors or dissemination of false information; and • general economic and geopolitical conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years and stock prices of technology companies have been especially volatile. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business is dependent on the continued growth of the SAN market and if this market does not continue to develop and expand as we anticipate, our business will suffer. A significant number of our products are used in SANs and, therefore, our business is dependent on the SAN market. Accordingly, the widespread adoption of SANs for use in organizations’ computing systems is critical to our future success. SANs are often implemented in connection with the deployment of new storage systems and servers. Therefore, our future success is also substantially dependent on the market for new storage systems and servers. Our success in generating revenue in the SAN market will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • educate potential OEM customers, distributors, resellers, system integrators, storage service providers and end-user organizations about the benefits of SANs; • maintain and enhance our relationships with OEM customers, distributors, resellers, system integrators and storage system providers; 7 Table of Contents • predict and base our products on standards which ultimately become industry standards; and • achieve interoperability between our products and other SAN components from diverse vendors. Our business could be adversely affected by the broad adoption of server virtualization technology. Server virtualization technologies, which allow a single server to take on the function of what was previously performed by many individual servers, are gaining momentum in the industry. The broad implementation of server virtualization could result in a decrease in the demand for servers, which could result in a lower demand for our products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a significant increase in the market acceptance of blade servers. Blade server products have gained acceptance in the market over the past few years. Blade servers use custom SAN infrastructure products, including blade switches and mezzanine cards which have lower average selling prices than the SAN infrastructure products used in a non-blade server environment. If blade servers gain an increased percentage of the overall server market, our business could be adversely affected by the transition to blade server products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our financial condition will be materially harmed if we do not maintain and gain market acceptance of our products. The markets in which we compete involve rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuing improvements in products and services. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to: • enhance our current products and develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that keep pace with technological developments and industry standards; • compete effectively on the basis of price and performance; and • adequately address OEM and end-user customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need to continue to develop new products, which will require a significant investment in new product development. Our competitors may be developing alternative technologies, which may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. Although we continue to explore and develop products based on new technologies, a substantial portion of our revenues is generated today from Fibre Channel technology. If alternative technologies are adopted by the industry, we may not be able to develop products for new technologies in a timely manner. Further, even if alternative technologies do augment Fibre Channel revenues, our products may not be fully developed in time to be accepted by our customers. Even if our new products are developed on time, we may not be able to manufacture them at competitive prices or in sufficient volumes. We depend on a limited number of customers, and any decrease in revenues or cash flows from any one of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. A small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our net revenues, and we expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our net revenues in the foreseeable future. Our top ten customers accounted for 85%, 80% and 77% of net revenues for fiscal year 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable. The loss of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers generally order products through written purchase orders as opposed to long-term supply contracts and, therefore, are generally not obligated to purchase products from us for any extended period. Major customers also have significant leverage over us and may attempt to change the terms, including pricing and payment terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. This risk is increased due to the potential for some of these customers to merge with or acquire one or 8 Table of Contents more of our other customers. As our OEM customers are pressured to reduce prices as a result of competitive factors, we may be required to contractually commit to price reductions for our products before we know how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. If we are unable to achieve such cost reductions, our gross margins could decline and such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business may be subject to seasonal fluctuations and uneven sales patterns in the future. A large percentage of our products are sold to customers who experience seasonality and uneven sales patterns in their businesses. As a result, we could continue to experience similar seasonality and uneven sales patterns. We believe this uneven sales pattern is a result of many factors including: • the tendency of our customers to close a disproportionate percentage of their sales transactions in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter; • spikes in sales during the fourth quarter of each calendar year that some of our customers experience; and • differences between our quarterly fiscal periods and the fiscal periods of our customers. In addition, as our customers increasingly require us to maintain products at hub locations near their facilities, it becomes easier for our customers to order products with very short lead times, which makes it increasingly difficult for us to predict sales trends. Our uneven sales pattern also makes it extremely difficult to predict the demand of our customers and adjust manufacturing capacity accordingly. If we predict demand that is substantially greater than actual customer orders, we will have excess inventory. Alternatively, if customer orders substantially exceed predicted demand, the ability to assemble, test and ship orders received in the last weeks and days of each quarter may be limited, or at an increased cost, which could have a material adverse effect on quarterly revenues and earnings. Competition within the markets for our products is intense and includes various established competitors. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by short product life cycles, price erosion, rapidly changing technology, frequent product improvements and evolving industry standards. In the Fibre Channel HBA market, we compete primarily with Emulex Corporation. In the iSCSI HBA market, we compete primarily with Broadcom Corporation and we also compete with companies offering software initiator solutions. In the Fibre Channel switch and storage router markets, we compete primarily with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc. Our competition in the Fibre Channel switch market includes well-established participants who have significantly more sales and marketing resources to develop and penetrate this market. In the InfiniBand HCA and switch markets, we compete primarily with Voltaire Ltd., Cisco Systems, Inc. and Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. We may also compete with some of our server and storage systems customers, some of which have the capability to develop products comparable to those we offer. We need to continue to develop products appropriate to our markets to remain competitive as our competitors continue to introduce products with improved features. While we continue to devote significant resources to engineering and development, these efforts may not be successful or competitive products may not be developed and introduced in a timely manner. In addition, while relatively few competitors offer a full range of SAN and server fabric infrastructure products, additional domestic and foreign manufacturers may increase their presence in these markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors. If we are unable to design, develop or introduce competitive new products on a timely basis, our future operating results will be materially and adversely affected. We expect the pricing of our products to continue to decline, which could reduce our revenues, gross margins and profitability. We expect the average unit prices of our products (on a product to product comparison basis) to decline in the future as a result of competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors, or other factors. If we are unable to offset these factors by increasing sales volumes, or reducing product manufacturing costs, our total revenues and gross margins may decline. In addition, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements. Moreover, most of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or 9 Table of Contents incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenues. As a result, we may not be able to decrease our spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, our operating results and gross margins may be below our expectations and the expectations of investors and public market analysts, and our stock price could be negatively affected. Our distributors may not adequately distribute our products and their reseller customers may purchase products from our competitors, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our distributors generally offer a diverse array of products from several different manufacturers and suppliers. Accordingly, we are at risk that these distributors may give higher priority to stocking and selling products from other suppliers, thus reducing their efforts and ability to sell our products. A reduction in sales efforts by our current distributors could materially and adversely impact our business or results of operations. In addition, if we decrease our distributor-incentive programs (i.e., competitive pricing and rebates), our distributors may decrease the amounts of product purchased from us. This could result in a change of business behavior, and distributors may decide to decrease the amount of product held and reduce their inventory levels, which could impact availability of our products to their customers. As a result of these factors regarding our distributors or other unrelated factors, the reseller customers of our distributors could decide to purchase products developed and manufactured by our competitors. Any loss of demand for our products by value-added resellers and system integrators could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components. We purchase certain key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources. We purchase application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, from single sources and we purchase microprocessors, certain connectors, logic chips, power supplies and programmable logic devices from limited sources. We use forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component requirements. If we overestimate component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs and risk of obsolescence. If we underestimate component requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing process and result in lost or postponed revenue, or reduced profit if expedite charges are required. In addition, lead times for components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. We also may experience shortages of certain components from time to time, which could also delay the manufacturing processes. Third-party subcontractors located outside the United States assemble and test certain products for us. To the extent that we rely upon third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we will not be able to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. If any of these subcontractors experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffer damage to their facilities, experience power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. In addition, the loss of any of our major third-party contract manufacturers could significantly impact our ability to produce products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is a lengthy and expensive process. Some customers will not purchase any products, other than a limited number of evaluation units, until they qualify the manufacturing line for the product, and we may not always be able to satisfy the qualification requirements of these customers. If we are required to change a contract manufacturer or if a contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of our products to our customers could be delayed resulting in loss or postponement of revenues and our competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. 10 Table of Contents We depend on our relationships with silicon chip suppliers and a loss of any of these relationships may lead to unpredictable consequences that may harm our results of operations if alternative supply sources are not available. We currently rely on multiple foundries to manufacture our semiconductor products either in finished form or wafer form. We generally conduct business with these foundries through written purchase orders as opposed to long-term supply contracts. Therefore, these foundries are generally not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. If a foundry terminates its relationship with us or if our supply from a foundry is otherwise interrupted, we may not have a sufficient amount of time to replace the supply of products manufactured by that foundry. As a result, we may not be able to meet customer demands, which could harm our business. Historically, there have been periods when there has been a worldwide shortage of advanced process technology foundry capacity. The manufacture of semiconductor devices is subject to a wide variety of factors, including the availability of raw materials, the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of personnel and equipment. We are continuously evaluating potential new sources of supply. However, the qualification process and the production ramp-up for additional foundries have in the past taken, and could in the future take, longer than anticipated. New supply sources may not be able or willing to satisfy our silicon chip requirements on a timely basis or at acceptable quality or unit prices. We have not developed alternate sources of supply for some of our products. A customer’s inability to obtain a sufficient supply of products from us may cause that customer to satisfy its product requirements from our competitors. Constraints or delays in the supply of our products, due to capacity constraints, unexpected disruptions at foundries or with our subcontractors, delays in obtaining additional production at the existing foundries or in obtaining production from new foundries, shortages of raw materials or other reasons, could result in the loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The number of suppliers we use may decrease as a result of business combinations involving these suppliers. For example, LSI Corporation acquired Agere Systems, Inc. in early 2007. Both LSI Corporation and Agere Systems, Inc. were QLogic suppliers. This transaction has reduced the number of companies we can use to produce our semiconductor products. Our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. As of March 30, 2008, we held short-term and long-term marketable securities aggregating $216.4 million. We invest primarily in marketable debt securities, all of which are high investment grade, and we limit the amount of credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. A deterioration in the economy, including a credit crisis or significant volatility in interest rates, could cause our marketable securities to decline in value or could impact the liquidity of the portfolio. If market conditions deteriorate significantly, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our marketable securities include investments in auction rate securities, all of which are rated AA or higher. As of March 30, 2008, our investment portfolio included $24.1 million of auction rate debt securities and $31.8 million of auction rate preferred securities. During late fiscal 2008, the market auctions of many auction rate securities began to fail, including auctions for our auction rate securities. The underlying assets for auction rate debt securities in our portfolio are student loans, substantially all of which are backed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. However, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize the recorded value of these investments. The underlying assets of our auction rate preferred securities are the respective funds’ investment portfolio, which each had an asset coverage in excess of 200% for the related preferred security holders as of March 30, 2008. We believe that the gross unrealized losses associated with the auction rate securities in our portfolio are primarily due to the current liquidity issues in the auction rate securities market. Accordingly, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. If the fair value of our auction rate securities declines in the future and an impairment of such securities is determined to be other-than-temporary, any write-down of such investments could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our products are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors that could lead to an increase in our costs, reduce our net revenues or damage our reputation. Our products are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors when first introduced or as newer versions are released. We are also exposed to risks associated with latent defects in existing products. From time to time, we have found errors in existing, new or enhanced products. The occurrence of hardware or software errors could adversely affect the sales of our products, cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. The migration of our customers toward new products could adversely affect our results of operations. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize the effects of product inventories that may become excess and obsolete, as well as ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products in the future or to develop and successfully introduce new products and product enhancements could adversely affect our business or results of operations. When we introduce new products and product enhancements, we face risks relating to product transitions, including risks relating to forecasting demand. Any such adverse events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Historically, the electronics industry has developed higher performance ASICs, which create chip level solutions that replace selected board level or box level solutions at a significantly lower average selling price. We have previously offered ASICs to customers for certain applications that have effectively resulted in a lower-priced solution when compared to an HBA solution. This transition to ASICs may also occur with respect to other current and future products. The result of this transition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, a similar adverse effect to our business could occur if there were rapid shifts in customer purchases from our midrange server and storage solutions to products for the small and medium-sized business market or if our customers shifted to lower cost products that could replace our HBA or HCA solutions. Environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Most of our products are subject to various laws governing chemical substances in products, including those regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. We could incur substantial costs, or our products could be restricted from entering certain countries, if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS) and similar legislation in other countries including China, Japan and Korea. In addition, certain recycling, labeling and related requirements have already begun to apply to products we sell internationally. Where necessary, we are redesigning our products to ensure that they comply with these requirements as well as related requirements imposed by our OEM customers. We are also working with our suppliers to provide us with compliant materials, parts and components. If our products do not comply with substance restrictions, we could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions, and contract damage claims. In addition, we could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into various countries, and required to recall and replace any products already shipped, if such products were found to be non-compliant. This would disrupt our ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories and harm to our business and customer relationships. We also must successfully manage the transition to RoHS-compliant products in order to minimize the effects of product inventories that may become excess or obsolete, as well as ensure that sufficient supplies of RoHS-compliant products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Failure to manage this transition may adversely impact our revenues and operating results. Various other countries and states in the United States have issued, or are in the process of issuing, other environmental 12 Table of Contents regulations that may impose additional restrictions or obligations and require further changes to our products. These regulations could impose a significant cost of doing business in those countries and states. The European Union adopted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which requires European Union countries to enact legislation to make producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. Because we depend on foreign customers and suppliers, we are subject to international economic, currency, regulatory, political and other risks that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. International revenues accounted for 49%, 46% and 45% of our net revenues for fiscal year 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, a significant portion of our inventory purchases are from suppliers that are located outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to several risks, which include: • a greater difficulty of administering and managing our business globally; • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulatory requirements, such as import or export requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • less effective intellectual property protections; • potentially longer accounts receivable cycles; • currency fluctuations; • overlapping or differing tax structures; • political and economic instability, including terrorism and war; and • general trade restrictions. Our international sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, if the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign customers should increase, the resulting effective price increase of our products to such foreign customers could result in decreased sales. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we and our customers are subject to various import and export regulations of the United States government and other countries. Certain government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. Changes in or violations of any such import or export regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may engage in mergers, acquisitions and strategic investments and these activities may adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. Our future growth may depend in part on our ability to identify and acquire complementary businesses, technologies or product lines that are compatible with our existing business. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the failure of markets for the products of acquired companies to develop as expected; 13 Table of Contents • uncertainties in identifying and pursuing target companies; • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies; • the existence of unknown defects in acquired companies’ products or assets that may not be identified due to the inherent limitations involved in the due diligence process of an acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks associated with entering markets or conducting operations with which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • risks associated with assuming the legal obligations of acquired companies; • risks related to the effect that acquired companies’ internal control processes might have on our financial reporting and management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting; • the potential loss of, or impairment of our relationships with, current customers or failure to retain the acquired companies’ customers; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; and • the incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. Further, we may never realize the perceived benefits of a business combination. Acquisitions by us could negatively impact gross margins or dilute stockholders’ investment and cause us to incur debt, contingent liabilities and amortization/impairment charges related to intangible assets, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods could be negatively impacted by mergers and acquisitions. We have made, and could make in the future, investments in technology companies, including privately-held companies in a development stage. Many of these private equity investments are inherently risky because the companies’ businesses may never develop, and we may incur losses related to these investments. In addition, we may be required to write down the carrying value of these investments to reflect other-than-temporary declines in their value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have recently completed acquisitions that expanded our portfolio of products to include InfiniBand solutions. While the usage of InfiniBand technology has increased since its first specifications were completed in October 2000, continued adoption of InfiniBand is dependent on continued collaboration and cooperation among IT vendors. In addition, the end users that purchase IT products and services from vendors must find InfiniBand to be a compelling solution to their IT system requirements. We cannot control third-party participation in the development of InfiniBand as an industry standard technology. InfiniBand may fail to effectively compete with other technologies, which may be adopted by vendors and their customers in place of InfiniBand. The adoption of InfiniBand is also impacted by the general replacement cycle of IT equipment by end users, which is dependent on factors unrelated to InfiniBand. These factors may reduce the rate at which InfiniBand is incorporated by the industry and impede its adoption in the storage, communications infrastructure and embedded systems markets, which in turn would harm our ability to sell our InfiniBand products. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our future success largely depends on our key engineering, sales, marketing and executive personnel, including highly skilled semiconductor design personnel and software developers. If we lose the services of key personnel or fail to hire personnel for key positions, our business would be adversely affected. We believe that the market for key personnel in the industries in which we compete is highly competitive. In particular, periodically we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified engineers and other technical personnel and anticipate that competition for such personnel will increase in the future. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel with the skills and expertise necessary to develop new products in the future or to manage our business, both in the United States and abroad. 14 Table of Contents We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our total employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage retention of key personnel, and provide competitive compensation packages. In recent periods, many of our employee stock options were granted with exercise prices which exceed our current stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain employees. As a result of our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” in fiscal 2007, the use of stock options and other stock-based awards to attract and retain key personnel may be limited. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant stock-based awards to employees in the future, which may result in changes in our stock-based compensation strategy. These and other developments relating to the provision of stock-based compensation to employees could make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. We expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. Currently, most of our products include ASICs which are manufactured in 0.18, 0.13 and 0.09 micron geometry processes. In addition, we have begun to develop certain new ASIC products with 65 nanometer (0.065 micron) geometry process technology. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and difficult to enforce. Although we have patent protection on certain aspects of our technology in some jurisdictions, we rely primarily on trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or that we can maintain such technology as trade secrets. There also can be no assurance that any patents we possess will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We have taken steps in several jurisdictions to enforce our trademarks against third parties. No assurances can be given that we will ultimately be successful in protecting our trademarks. The laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or at all. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be negatively impacted. Disputes relating to claimed infringement of intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business. We have received notices of claimed infringement of intellectual property rights in the past and have been involved in intellectual property litigation in the past. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us, or against customers who we are contractually obligated to indemnify, with respect to existing and future products. In addition, individuals and groups are purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as ours. Although patent and intellectual property disputes may be settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and the necessary licenses or similar arrangements may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, we could be prevented from manufacturing and selling some of our products. In addition, if we litigate these kinds of claims, the litigation could be expensive, time consuming and could divert management’s attention from other matters. Our business could suffer regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Our supply of silicon chips and other components can also be interrupted by intellectual property infringement claims against our suppliers. 15 Table of Contents Dependence on third-party technology could adversely affect our business. Some of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that necessary licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may have little or no ability to correct errors in the technology provided by such third parties, or to continue to develop new generations of such technology. Accordingly, we may be dependent on their ability and willingness to do so. In the event of a problem with such technology, or in the event that our rights to use such technology become impaired, we may be unable to ship our products containing such technology, and may be unable to replace the technology with a suitable alternative within the time frame needed by our customers. The inability to find suitable alternatives to third-party technology, obtain certain licenses or obtain such licenses on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in our products, we may be required to license key portions of our products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of source code. Certain of our software may be derived from “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License (GPL) which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of licenses customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates have recently been and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, by discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our effective income tax rates are also affected by intercompany transactions for licenses, services, funding and other items. Given the increased global scope of our operations, and the complexity of global tax and transfer pricing rules and regulations, it has become increasingly difficult to estimate earnings within each tax jurisdiction. If actual earnings within a tax jurisdiction differ materially from our estimates, we may not achieve our expected effective tax rate. Additionally, our effective tax rate may be impacted by the tax effects of acquisitions, stock-based compensation and uncertain tax positions. Finally, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. However, unanticipated outcomes from these continuous examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Computer viruses and other forms of tampering with our computer systems or servers may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Despite our implementation of network security measures and anti-virus defenses, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our facilities and the facilities of our suppliers and customers are located in regions that are subject to natural disasters. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, our principal design facilities and our critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We are not specifically insured for earthquakes or other natural disasters. Any personal injury or damage to the facilities as a result of such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, some of our products are manufactured or sold in regions which have historically experienced natural disasters. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, including a hurricane, tsunami or fire, affecting a country in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 