Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise publicly disclosed by the Company. Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced, are currently experiencing, and expect to experience in future periods, fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. For example, the market for our Fibre Channel products is mature and has declined during recent periods. This market decline may be the result of a shift in the information technology (IT) data center deployment model, as more enterprise data centers are using private or public clouds to provide a portion of their requirements. This shift has adversely impacted the enterprise server market. To the extent the Fibre Channel market continues to decline, our quarterly operating results would be negatively impacted. A significant portion of our net revenues in each fiscal quarter results from orders booked in that quarter. Orders placed by major customers are typically based on their forecasted sales and inventory levels for our products. Accordingly, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast future sales levels and historical information may not be indicative of future trends. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current gross margins or profitability in the future. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may also be the result of: • the timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • gain or loss of significant customers; 7 Table of Contents • industry consolidation among our competitors, our customers or our suppliers; • customer policies pertaining to desired inventory levels of our products; • sales discounts and customer incentives; • the availability and sale of new products; • changes in our average selling prices; • the timing of server refresh cycles; • variations in manufacturing capacities, efficiencies and costs; • the availability and cost of components, including silicon chips; • variations in product development costs, especially related to advanced technologies; • variations in operating expenses; • changes in effective income tax rates, including those resulting from changes in tax laws; • our ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers; • actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; • the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; • gains or losses related to our marketable securities; or • changes in accounting rules or our accounting policies. In addition, our quarterly results of operations are influenced by competitive factors, including the pricing and availability of our products and our competitors’ products. Furthermore, communications regarding new products and technologies could cause our customers to defer or cancel purchases of our products. Order deferrals by our customers, delays in our introduction of new products, and longer than anticipated design-in cycles for our products have in the past adversely affected our quarterly results of operations. Due to these factors, as well as other unanticipated factors, it is likely that in some future quarter or quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, and as a result, the price of our common stock could significantly decrease. We expect gross margin to vary over time and our recent level of gross margin may not be sustainable. Our recent level of gross margin may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • as a result of our acquisition of the 10/40/100Gb Ethernet controller-related assets from Broadcom in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we expect that our Ethernet products will represent a higher percentage of our future revenues and these products have a lower gross margin percentage than our historical corporate average; • other changes in product mix; • transitions to products based on emerging technologies, which may have lower gross margins; • changes in manufacturing volumes over which fixed costs are absorbed; • increased price competition; 8 Table of Contents • introduction of new products by us or our competitors, including products with advantages in price, performance or features; • our inability to reduce manufacturing-related or component costs; • entry into new markets; • amortization and impairments of purchased intangible assets; • sales discounts and customer incentives; • increases in material, labor or overhead costs; • excess inventory and inventory holding charges; • changes in distribution channels; • increased warranty costs; and • acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies or product lines. A decrease in our gross margin could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results have been, are being, and may in the future be, adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. The United States and other countries around the world have experienced, and are continuing to experience, economic weakness and uncertainty. Political instability in certain regions of the world is significantly contributing to this economic uncertainty. Economic uncertainty is adversely affecting, and in the future may continue to adversely affect, IT spending rates. For example, certain of our large OEM customers are reporting significant weakness in particular markets and geographies. Reductions in IT spending rates have resulted in reduced sales volumes, and could result in lower prices for our products, longer sales cycles, increased inventory provisions and increased production costs, all of which could negatively impact our results of operations. As a result of worldwide economic weakness and uncertainty, it is extremely difficult for us and our customers to forecast future revenue levels based on historical information and trends. In addition, U.S. federal government spending cuts might reduce demand for our products from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products. To the extent that we do not achieve our anticipated level of revenue, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Several factors could impact our stock price including, but not limited to: • differences between our actual revenues and operating results and the published expectations of public market analysts; • quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or us; • conditions in the markets in which we operate; • changes in market projections by industry forecasters; • changes in estimates of our earnings or rating upgrades or downgrades of our stock by public market analysts; 9 Table of Contents • operating results or forecasts of our major customers or competitors; • rumors or dissemination of false information; and • general economic and geopolitical conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years and stock prices of technology companies have been especially volatile. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Our business is dependent, in large part, on the continued growth of the networking markets that we serve and if these markets do not continue to develop, our business will suffer. Our products are used in storage, local area and converged networks, and therefore our business is dependent on these markets. Our success in generating revenue in these markets will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • educate potential OEM customers, distributors, resellers, system integrators, storage system providers and end-user organizations about the benefits of our products; • maintain and enhance our relationships with OEM customers, distributors, resellers, system integrators and storage system providers; • predict and base our products on standards that ultimately become industry standards; and • achieve and maintain interoperability between our products and other equipment and components from diverse vendors. If we are not successful in any or all of these items, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our financial condition will be materially harmed if we do not maintain and gain market acceptance of our products. The markets in which we compete involve rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and continuing improvements in products and services. Examples of these changing technologies include system-on-chip products and both software-defined-networking and software-defined-storage products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to: • enhance our current products and develop and introduce, in a timely manner, new products that keep pace with technological developments and industry standards; • compete effectively on the basis of price and performance; and • adequately address OEM and end-user customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need to continue to develop new products and enter new markets, which will require significant investment. Some new markets may require engagement with customers with whom we have limited or no prior experience. Our competitors may be developing alternative technologies, or entering into exclusive strategic alliances with our major customers, either of which may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products, our ability to enter new markets, or our ability to secure customer design wins. Although we continue to explore and develop products based on new technologies, a substantial portion of our revenues is generated today from Fibre Channel technology. If alternative technologies are adopted by the industry, we may not be able to develop products for these technologies in a timely manner. Further, even if 10 Table of Contents alternative technologies do augment Fibre Channel revenues, our products may not be fully developed in time to be accepted by our customers. Even if our new products are developed in time, we may not be able to manufacture them at competitive prices or in sufficient volumes. Some of our products are based on Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) or 10Gb Ethernet technologies. FCoE is a converged networking technology that provides a unified storage and data network over Enhanced Ethernet, while preserving the investment by end users in their existing Fibre Channel infrastructure and storage. As with many emerging technologies, it is expected that the market for FCoE will take a number of years to fully develop and mature. We expect products based on FCoE to supplement, and perhaps replace, certain products based on Fibre Channel technology. 10Gb Ethernet is a technology for use in enterprise data centers. The market for 10Gb Ethernet products includes well-established participants who have significantly more engineering, sales and marketing resources to dedicate to developing and penetrating the market than we do. An inability to maintain, or build on, our market share in the Fibre Channel, converged or 10Gb Ethernet markets, or the failure of these markets to expand, could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend on a small number of customers and any decrease in revenues from any one of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. A small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our net revenues, and we expect that a small number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our net revenues in the foreseeable future. Our top ten customers accounted for 83%, 84% and 86% of net revenues during fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Total revenue from our two largest customers, Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation, together accounted for 40% or more of net revenues during fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable. A significant portion of the products we sell are incorporated into servers manufactured by our major customers. Certain of our large OEM customers are reporting weakness in this market. If server sales by our major customers continue to be adversely affected by the IT spending environment or server market factors, demand for our products could decrease further, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers generally order products through written purchase orders instead of long-term supply contracts and, therefore, are generally not obligated to purchase products from us for any extended period. Customers typically incorporate our products into complex devices and systems, which creates supply chain cross-dependencies. Accordingly, supply chain disruptions affecting components of our customers’ devices and/or systems could negatively impact the demand for our products, even if the supply of our products is not directly affected. Major customers also have significant leverage over us and may attempt to change the sales terms, including pricing, customer incentives and payment terms, or insist that we undertake or fund significant aspects of the design, qualification and testing that our customers have typically been responsible for, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As our OEM customers are pressured to reduce prices as a result of competitive factors, we may be required to contractually commit to price reductions for our products before we know how, or if, cost reductions can be achieved. If we are unable to achieve these cost reductions, our gross margins could decline and such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The ongoing consolidation in the technology industry could adversely impact our business. There is the potential for some of our customers to merge with or acquire one or more of our other customers. For example, International Business Machines Corporation recently announced an agreement to sell its x86 server business to Lenovo Group Ltd. There is also a potential that one of our large customers could acquire one of our current competitors. As a result of such transactions, demand for our products could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Competition within the markets for products such as ours is intense and includes various established competitors. The markets for networking connectivity products are highly competitive and are characterized by short product life cycles, price erosion, rapidly changing technology, frequent product performance improvements and evolving industry standards. Due to the diversity of products required in storage, local area and converged networking, we compete with many companies. In the traditional enterprise storage Fibre Channel adapter and application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) markets, our primary competitor is Emulex Corporation. In the 10Gb Ethernet adapter and ASIC markets, which include converged networking products such as FCoE and Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI) we compete primarily with Emulex Corporation, Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., Chelsio Communications, Inc. and Intel Corporation. We may also compete with some of our server and storage systems customers, some of which have the capability to develop products comparable to those we offer. We need to continue to develop products appropriate to our markets to remain competitive as our competitors continue to introduce products with improved features. While we continue to devote significant resources to engineering and development, these efforts may not be successful or competitive products may not be developed and introduced in a timely manner. In addition, while relatively few competitors offer a full range of storage, local area and converged networking connectivity products, additional domestic and foreign manufacturers may increase their presence in these markets either through the development of new products or through industry consolidation. We may not be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors. If we are unable to design, develop or introduce competitive new products on a timely basis, or if our competitors introduce new products that are more successful than ours in the marketplace, our future operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We may engage in mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and strategic investments and these activities could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. Our future growth may depend in part on our ability to identify and acquire businesses, technologies or product lines. For example, we completed two acquisitions in fiscal 2014, including the acquisition of 10/40/100Gb Ethernet controller-related assets from Broadcom Corporation. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the failure of markets for the products of acquired businesses, technologies or product lines to develop as expected; • uncertainties in identifying and pursuing acquisition targets; • the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; • the risk that the financial returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses; • difficulties in assimilating the acquired businesses, technologies or product lines; • the failure to successfully manage additional business locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; • the existence of unknown product defects related to acquired businesses, technologies or product lines that may not be identified due to the inherent limitations involved in the due diligence process of an acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks associated with entering markets or conducting operations with which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • risks associated with assuming the legal obligations of acquired businesses, technologies or product lines; 12 Table of Contents • risks related to the effect that internal control processes of acquired businesses might have on our financial reporting and management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting; • the potential loss of, or impairment of our relationships with, current customers or failure to retain the customers of acquired businesses; • the inability to qualify the acquired products with OEM partners on a timely basis, or at all; • the potential loss of key employees related to acquired businesses, technologies or product lines; and • the incurrence of significant exit charges if products or technologies acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. Further, we may never realize the perceived benefits of a business combination or divestiture. Acquisitions by us could negatively impact gross margins or dilute stockholders’ investment and cause us to incur debt, contingent liabilities and amortization/impairment charges related to intangible assets, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty splitting up businesses, distracting employees, potential loss of revenue and negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods could be negatively impacted by acquisitions or divestitures. We have made, and could make in the future, investments in technology companies, including privately-held companies in a development stage. Many of these private equity investments are inherently risky because the companies’ businesses may never develop, and we may incur losses related to these investments. In addition, we may be required to write down the carrying value of these investments to reflect other-than-temporary declines in their value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our future success largely depends on our key engineering, sales, marketing and executive personnel, including highly skilled semiconductor design personnel and software developers. In December 2013, we announced the appointment of Prasad Rampalli to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer with an effective date of February 3, 2014. During our leadership transition, it is especially important that we retain key personnel. If we lose the services of key personnel, or do not hire or retain other personnel for key positions, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that the market for key personnel in the industries in which we compete is highly competitive. In particular, we have periodically experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified engineers and other technical personnel and anticipate that competition for such personnel will increase in the future. For example, the market for qualified technical personnel within India has become extremely competitive, resulting in significant wage inflation. As a result, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel with the skills and expertise necessary to develop new products in the future or to manage our business, both in the United States and abroad. We have historically used equity awards and our employee stock purchase program as key components of our total employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage retention of key personnel, and provide competitive compensation packages. However, the guidelines of proxy advisory firms relating to stockholder approval of shares available under equity compensation plans and share usage could make it more difficult for us to obtain such approval and therefore grant stock-based awards to employees in the future, which may result in changes in our stock-based compensation strategy. These and other developments relating to the provision of stock-based compensation to employees could make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. 13 Table of Contents Our products are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors that could lead to an increase in our costs, reduce our net revenues or damage our reputation. Our products are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors when first introduced or as newer versions are released. We are also exposed to risks associated with latent defects in existing products and to risks that components purchased from third-party subcontractors and incorporated into our products may not meet our specifications or may otherwise fail prematurely. From time to time, we have found errors in existing, new or enhanced products. In addition, our products are frequently combined with other products, including software, from other vendors, and these products often need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of hardware or software errors could adversely affect the sales of our products, cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We expect the pricing of our products to continue to decline, which could reduce our revenues, gross margins and profitability. We expect the average unit prices of our products (on a like-for-like product comparison basis) to decline in the future as a result of competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and customer incentives, new product introductions by us or our competitors, or other factors. If we are unable to offset these factors by increasing sales volumes or reducing product manufacturing costs, our total revenues and gross margins may decline. Moreover, most of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenues. As a result, we may not be able to decrease our spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, our revenues, gross margins and profitability could decline. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components. Certain key components used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from single or limited sources. ASICs are purchased from single sources. For example, in connection with our acquisition of 10/40/100Gb Ethernet controller-related assets, we entered into a development and supply agreement which requires us to purchase the ASICs used in the related products exclusively from Broadcom. Other key components such as microprocessors, logic chips, power supplies and programmable logic devices are purchased from limited sources. If one of these suppliers experiences an interruption in its ability to supply our needs, or chooses to sever or significantly change its relationship with us, we may be unable to produce certain of our products, which could result in the loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on worldwide third-party subcontractors and contract manufacturers. Third-party subcontractors located outside the United States assemble and test certain products for us. To the extent that we rely on third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we will not be able to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. If a subcontractor experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, natural disasters, labor shortages or labor strikes, or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. In addition, the loss of any of our major third-party contract manufacturers could significantly impact our ability to produce products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is a lengthy and expensive process. Some customers will not purchase any products, other than a limited number of evaluation units, until they qualify the manufacturing line for the 14 Table of Contents product. If we are required to change a contract manufacturer or if a contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component part shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of our products to our customers could be delayed, resulting in loss or postponement of revenues and potential harm to our competitive position and relationships with customers. The migration of our customers toward new products could adversely affect our results of operations. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize the effects of product inventories that may become excess and obsolete, as well as ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products in the future or to develop and successfully introduce new products and product enhancements could adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, our customers are demanding a higher level of customization for new products, which prevents us from fully leveraging our product design work and adds to our new product development costs. When we introduce new products and product enhancements, we face additional risks relating to product transitions, including risks relating to forecasting demand and longer lead times associated with smaller product geometries and more complex production operations. Any such adverse event or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Historically, the technology industry has developed higher performance ASICs, which create chip-level solutions that replace selected board-level or box-level solutions at a significantly lower average selling price. We have previously offered ASICs to customers for certain applications that have effectively resulted in a lower-priced solution when compared to an adapter solution. This transition to ASICs may also occur with respect to other current and future products. The result of this transition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, a similar adverse effect to our business could occur if there were rapid shifts in customer purchases from our midrange networking connectivity products to lower-cost products. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and uneven sales patterns. A large percentage of our products are sold to customers who experience seasonality and uneven sales patterns in their businesses. As a result, we experience similar seasonality and uneven sales patterns. We believe this uneven sales pattern is a result of many factors including: • the tendency of our customers to close a disproportionate percentage of their sales transactions in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter; • spikes in sales during the fourth quarter of each calendar year that some of our customers experience; and • differences between our quarterly fiscal periods and the fiscal periods of our customers. In addition, because our customers require us to maintain products at hub locations near their facilities or near the facilities of their contract manufacturers, it is difficult for us to predict sales trends. Our uneven sales pattern also makes it extremely difficult to predict the demand of our customers and adjust manufacturing capacity accordingly. If we predict demand that is substantially greater than actual customer orders, we will have excess inventory. Alternatively, if customer orders substantially exceed predicted demand, the ability to assemble, test and ship orders received in the last weeks and days of each quarter may be limited, or at an increased cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenues and earnings. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate has been and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, 15 Table of Contents by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our effective tax rate is also affected by intercompany transactions for licenses, services, funding and other items. Given the global scope of our operations, and the complexity of global tax and transfer pricing rules and regulations, it is difficult to estimate earnings within each tax jurisdiction. If actual earnings within a tax jurisdiction differ materially from our estimates, we may not achieve our expected effective tax rate. Additionally, our effective tax rate may be impacted by the tax effects of acquisitions, dispositions, changes to tax laws or regulations, examinations by tax authorities, stock-based compensation, uncertain tax positions, and changes in our ability to realize deferred tax assets. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining the impact on our effective tax rate related to these items, including whether it is more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets will be realized. Such estimates are subject to uncertainty due to various factors, including the economic environment, industry and market conditions, and the length of time of the projections included in the analyses. If our actual results are less favorable than current estimates, or we revise our estimates downward in future analyses, a valuation allowance may be required related to our deferred tax assets with a corresponding adjustment to earnings in the period in which such determination is made, which could have a material effect on our results of operations. In addition, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association of 34 countries including the United States, is contemplating changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These contemplated changes, if finalized and adopted by countries, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. Finally, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities, which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. For example, our federal consolidated income tax returns for fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012 are currently under examination by the IRS. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from examinations to determine the adequacy of our provisions for income taxes. However, unanticipated outcomes from examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Because we have operations in foreign countries and depend on foreign customers and suppliers, we are subject to international economic, currency, regulatory, political and other risks that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. International revenues accounted for 58%, 57% and 57% of our net revenues for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we maintain operations in foreign countries and a significant portion of our inventory purchases are from suppliers that are located outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to several risks, which include: • a greater difficulty of administering and managing our business globally; • compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, regulatory requirements, such as import or export requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • less effective intellectual property protections outside of the United States; • currency fluctuations; • overlapping or differing tax structures; • political and economic instability, including terrorism and war; and • general trade restrictions. As of March 30, 2014, our international subsidiaries held $232.8 million of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. These holdings by our international subsidiaries consist primarily of debt securities 16 Table of Contents due from U.S. issuers, including the U.S. government and related agencies, and U.S. dollar denominated cash and money market funds. Certain foreign regulations could impact our ability to transfer funds to the United States. Additionally, should we decide to repatriate cash held outside of the United States, we may incur a significant tax obligation. Our international sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, if the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign customers should increase, the resulting effective price increase of our products to such foreign customers could result in decreased sales. In addition, a significant portion of our inventory is purchased from international suppliers, who invoice us in U.S. dollars. If the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign suppliers should decrease, our suppliers may increase prices, which could result in a decline of our gross margin. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our facilities and the facilities of our suppliers and customers are located in regions that are subject to natural disasters. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, our principal design facilities and our critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We are not specifically insured for earthquakes or other natural disasters. Any personal injury at, or damages to, the facilities as a result of such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, we have operations, suppliers and customers in regions that have historically experienced natural disasters. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, including a hurricane, flood, volcanic eruption, tsunami or fire, affecting any of these regions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of a natural disaster, our major customers may face shortages of components that could negatively impact their ability to build the servers and data center devices into which our products are integrated, thereby negatively impacting the demand for our products even if the supply of our products is not directly affected by the natural disaster. For example, the earthquake, tsunami and related events that occurred in Japan in March 2011, and the extensive flooding that occurred in Thailand beginning in October 2011, caused widespread destruction in regions that include suppliers of components for many technology companies. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and difficult to enforce. In some jurisdictions, we have patent protection on certain aspects of our technology. However, we rely primarily on trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology, or that we can maintain such technology as trade secrets. There also can be no assurance that any patents we possess will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We have taken steps in several jurisdictions to enforce our trademarks against third parties. No assurances can be given that we will ultimately be successful in protecting our trademarks. The laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or at all. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be negatively impacted. Disputes relating to claimed infringement of intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business. We have in the past received notices of claimed infringement of intellectual property rights and been involved in intellectual property litigation. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us, or against customers who we are contractually 17 Table of Contents obligated to indemnify, with respect to existing and future products. In addition, our supply of silicon chips and other components can also be interrupted by intellectual property infringement claims against our suppliers. Individuals and groups are purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as ours. Although patent and intellectual property disputes may be settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and the necessary licenses or similar arrangements may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. As a result, we could be prevented from manufacturing and selling some of our products. In addition, if we litigate these kinds of claims, the litigation could be expensive, time consuming and could divert management’s attention from other matters and there is no guarantee we would prevail. Our business could suffer regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Our distributors may not effectively sell our products and their reseller customers may purchase products from our competitors, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our distributors, which currently account for less than 15% of our net revenues, generally offer a diverse array of products from several different manufacturers and suppliers. Accordingly, we are at risk that these distributors may give higher priority to selling products from other suppliers, thus reducing their efforts to sell our products. A reduction in sales efforts by our current distributors could materially and adversely impact our business or results of operations. In addition, if we decrease our distributor-incentive programs (i.e., competitive pricing and rebates), our distributors may decrease the amount of product purchased from us. This could result in a change of business behavior, and distributors may decide to decrease their inventory levels, which could impact availability of our products to their customers. As a result of these factors regarding our distributors or other unrelated factors, the reseller customers of our distributors could decide to purchase products developed and manufactured by our competitors. Any loss of demand for our products by value-added resellers and system integrators could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our portfolio of marketable securities could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. As of March 30, 2014, we held short-term marketable securities totaling $186.8 million. We invest in debt securities, the majority of which are high investment grade, and we limit the exposure to credit risk through diversification and investment in highly-rated securities. However, investing in highly-rated securities does not entirely mitigate the risk of potential declines in market value. For example, in the past we have recorded impairment charges related to investment securities, including securities issued by companies in the financial services sector, that had previously been rated AA or higher. A deterioration in the economy, including tightening of credit markets or significant volatility in interest rates, could cause declines in value of our marketable securities or could impact the liquidity of the portfolio. If market conditions deteriorate significantly, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in and compliance with regulations could materially and adversely affect us. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if new laws, regulations or standards relating to us or our products are implemented or existing ones are changed. In addition, our compliance with existing regulations may have a material adverse impact on us. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has also finalized new disclosure requirements relating to the sourcing of so-called conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of Congo and certain other 18 Table of Contents adjoining countries. Our disclosure will be predicated upon the timely receipt of accurate information from suppliers, who may be unwilling or unable to provide us with the relevant information. As a result, these new requirements could adversely affect our costs, the availability of minerals used in our products and our relationships with customers and suppliers. We and our customers are subject to various import and export regulations of the United States government and other countries. Certain government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. Changes in or violations of any such import or export regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and material composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products and product take-back legislation (i.e., legislation that makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products). We could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of our products. Recent analyses have estimated the amount of global carbon emissions that are due to information technology products. As a result, governmental and non-governmental organizations have turned their attention to development of regulations and standards to drive technological improvements and reduce the amount of carbon emissions. There is a risk that these regulations or standards, once developed, will not fully address the complexity of the technology developed by the IT industry or will favor certain technological approaches that we do not currently utilize. Depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, compliance could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. We expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products, as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. If we fail to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in our products, we may be required to license key portions of our products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of our source code. Certain of our software may be derived from “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code 19 Table of Contents for the derivative works available to the public and license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of licenses customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public or stop distributing that work. System security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenues, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant and, if our efforts to address these problems are not successful, this could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. We have also outsourced a number of our business functions to third party contractors. Breaches of our or our third party contractors’ security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Our ability to borrow and maintain outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement is subject to certain covenants. We have a credit agreement that provides us with a $125.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that matures in March 2018. Borrowings under the credit agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including permitted share repurchases and acquisitions. Under the credit agreement, we may increase the revolving commitments or obtain incremental term loans in an aggregate amount up to an additional $100.0 million, subject to certain conditions. Our ability to borrow under the credit agreement is subject to continued compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. In addition, a breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in the credit agreement could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in outstanding borrowings becoming immediately due and payable. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers or amend the covenants. In the event that some or all of our outstanding borrowings are accelerated and become immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, our borrowings. There were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement as of March 30, 2014. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 