Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise publicly disclosed by the Company. Economic weakness and uncertainty has resulted in a decrease in information technology spending levels and could result in further deterioration of our revenues and operating results. The United States and other countries around the world have been experiencing economic weakness and uncertainty. There has been an erosion of global consumer confidence amidst concerns over declining asset values, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries. The economic uncertainty has resulted in a global downturn in information technology, or IT, spending rates, which has negatively impacted our revenue and operating results. Further reductions in IT spending rates could result in longer sales cycles, increased inventory provisions, increased production costs, lower prices for our products and reduced sales volumes. Even if IT spending rates were to increase, we cannot be certain that the market for our networking infrastructure products would be positively impacted. If economic conditions worsen, there are future reductions in either domestic or international IT spending rates, or IT spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could deteriorate further. As a result of worldwide economic uncertainty, it is extremely difficult for us and our customers to forecast future revenue levels based on historical information and trends. Portions of our expenses are fixed and others are tied to expected levels of revenue. To the extent that we do not achieve our anticipated level of revenue, our operating results could be adversely affected until such expenses are reduced to an appropriate level. In addition, we have implemented various cost-cutting measures in order to better align our revenues and cost structure. We may not be able to identify and implement appropriate further cost savings in a timely manner. Additionally, we may determine that the costs of implementing reductions outweigh the commensurate benefits. We are also subject to various counterparty risks as a result of the economic slowdown, including the potential insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or potential customer insolvencies, increased risk that customers may delay payments or fail to pay, and counterparty failures, particularly financial institutions, negatively impacting our treasury operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced, and expect to experience in future periods, fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current gross margins or profitability in the future. A significant portion of our net revenues in each fiscal quarter results from orders booked in that quarter. Orders placed by major customers are typically based on their forecasted sales and inventory levels for our products. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may also be the result of: • the timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • gain or loss of significant customers; • customer policies pertaining to desired inventory levels of our products; • sales discounts and customer incentives; • the availability and sale of new products; • changes in our average selling prices; • variations in manufacturing capacities, efficiencies and costs; 8 Table of Contents • the availability and cost of components, including silicon chips; • variations in product development costs, especially related to advanced technologies; • variations in operating expenses; • changes in effective income tax rates, including those resulting from changes in tax laws; • our ability to timely produce products that comply with new environmental restrictions or related requirements of our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers; • actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; • the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; • gains or losses related to our investment securities; • changes in accounting rules or our accounting policies; • general economic and other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders and capital spending; or • changes in the global economy that impact IT spending. In addition, our quarterly results of operations are influenced by competitive factors, including the pricing and availability of our products and our competitors’ products. Furthermore, communications regarding new products and technologies could cause our customers to defer or cancel purchases of our products. Order deferrals by our customers, delays in our introduction of new products, and longer than anticipated design-in cycles for our products have in the past adversely affected our quarterly results of operations. Due to these factors, as well as other unanticipated factors, it is likely that in some future quarter or quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, and as a result, the price of our common stock could significantly decrease. We expect gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of gross margin may not be sustainable. Our recent level of gross margin may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • changes in product mix; • changes in manufacturing volumes over which fixed costs are absorbed; • increased price competition; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors, including products with advantages in price, performance or features; • our inability to reduce manufacturing-related or component costs; • entry into new markets or the acquisition of new businesses; • amortization and impairments of purchased intangible assets; • sales discounts and customer incentives; • increases in material, labor or overhead costs; • excess inventory and inventory holding charges; 9 Table of Contents • changes in distribution channels; and • increased warranty costs. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Several factors could impact our stock price including, but not limited to: • differences between our actual revenues and operating results and the published expectations of public market analysts; • quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or us; • conditions in the markets in which we operate; • changes in market projections by industry forecasters; • changes in estimates of our earnings or rating upgrades/downgrades of our stock by public market analysts; • operating results or forecasts of our major customers or competitors; • rumors or dissemination of false information; and • general economic and geopolitical conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years and stock prices of technology companies have been especially volatile. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business is dependent, in large part, on the continued growth of the networking markets that we serve and if these markets do not continue to develop, our business will suffer. Our products are used in storage, high performance computing, or HPC, and converged networks, and therefore our business is dependent on these network infrastructure markets. Our success in generating revenue in these markets will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • educate potential OEM customers, distributors, resellers, system integrators, storage system providers and end-user organizations about the benefits of our products; • maintain and enhance our relationships with OEM customers, distributors, resellers, system integrators and storage system providers; • predict and base our products on standards which ultimately become industry standards; and • achieve and maintain interoperability between our products and other equipment and components from diverse vendors. Our business could be adversely affected by a significant increase in the market acceptance of blade servers. Blade server products have gained acceptance in the market over the past few years. Blade servers use custom storage, HPC and converged network infrastructure products, including bladed switches and mezzanine cards, which have lower average selling prices than the network infrastructure products used in a non-blade server environment. If blade servers gain an increased percentage of the overall server market, our business could be adversely affected by the transition to blade server products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our financial condition will be materially harmed if we do not maintain and gain market acceptance of our products. The markets in which we compete involve rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuing improvements in products and services. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to: • enhance our current products and develop and introduce, in a timely manner, new products that keep pace with technological developments and industry standards; • compete effectively on the basis of price and performance; and • adequately address OEM and end-user customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need to continue to develop new products, which will require significant investment. Our competitors may be developing alternative technologies, which may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. Although we continue to explore and develop products based on new technologies, a substantial portion of our revenues is generated today from Fibre Channel technology. If alternative technologies are adopted by the industry, we may not be able to develop products for new technologies in a timely manner. Further, even if alternative technologies do augment Fibre Channel revenues, our products may not be fully developed in time to be accepted by our customers. Even if our new products are developed on time, we may not be able to manufacture them at competitive prices or in sufficient volumes. Some of our products are based on the Fibre Channel over Ethernet, or FCoE, protocol. FCoE is a relatively new converged networking technology that provides a unified storage and data network over Enhanced Ethernet, while preserving the investment in existing Fibre Channel infrastructure and storage. As with most emerging technologies, it is expected that the market for FCoE will take a number of years to fully develop and mature. We expect products based on the FCoE protocol to supplement, and perhaps replace, certain products based on the Fibre Channel protocol. As a result, an inability to maintain our market share in the Fibre Channel market and build upon our market share in the FCoE market could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend on a small number of customers, and any decrease in revenues or cash flows from any one of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. A small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our net revenues, and we expect that a small number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our net revenues in the foreseeable future. Our top ten customers accounted for 86%, 84% and 85% of our net revenues for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Hewlett-Packard and IBM each accounted for 20% or more of net revenues during fiscal 2010. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable. In addition, the worldwide economic slowdown and tightening of credit in financial markets may impact the businesses of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers generally order products through written purchase orders as opposed to long-term supply contracts and, therefore, are generally not obligated to purchase products from us for any extended period. Major customers also have significant leverage over us and may attempt to change the terms, including pricing, customer incentives and payment terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. This risk is increased due to the potential for some of these customers to merge with or acquire one or more of our other customers. As our OEM customers are pressured to reduce prices as a result of competitive factors, we may be required to contractually commit to price reductions for our products before we know how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. If we are unable to achieve such cost reductions, our gross margins could decline and such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business may be subject to seasonal fluctuations and uneven sales patterns in the future. A large percentage of our products are sold to customers who experience seasonality and uneven sales patterns in their businesses. As a result, we may experience similar seasonality and uneven sales patterns. We believe this uneven sales pattern is a result of many factors including: • the tendency of our customers to close a disproportionate percentage of their sales transactions in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter; • spikes in sales during the fourth quarter of each calendar year that some of our customers experience; and 11 Table of Contents • differences between our quarterly fiscal periods and the fiscal periods of our customers. In addition, as our customers increasingly require us to maintain products at hub locations near their facilities, it becomes more difficult for us to predict sales trends. Our uneven sales pattern also makes it extremely difficult to predict the demand of our customers and adjust manufacturing capacity accordingly. If we predict demand that is substantially greater than actual customer orders, we will have excess inventory. Alternatively, if customer orders substantially exceed predicted demand, the ability to assemble, test and ship orders received in the last weeks and days of each quarter may be limited, or at an increased cost, which could have a material adverse effect on quarterly revenues and earnings. Competition within the markets for our products is intense and includes various established competitors. The markets for networking infrastructure components are highly competitive and are characterized by short product life cycles, price erosion, rapidly changing technology, frequent product performance improvements and evolving industry standards. Due to the diversity of products required in storage, HPC and converged networking infrastructure, we compete with many companies. In the traditional enterprise storage Fibre Channel adapter market, our primary competitor is Emulex Corporation, with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. also participating. In the iSCSI adapter market, our primary competitor is Broadcom Corporation and we also compete indirectly with companies offering software initiator solutions. In the FCoE adapter market, we compete with Emulex Corporation, and recent entry, Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. and we also compete with Ethernet adapter suppliers Broadcom Corporation and Intel Corporation. In the Intelligent Ethernet adapter market, we compete with Intel Corporation, Broadcom Corporation and Emulex Corporation. In the Fibre Channel switch and storage router markets, we compete primarily with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc. In the InfiniBand adapter and switch markets, we compete primarily with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. and Voltaire Ltd. We may also compete with some of our server and storage systems customers, some of which have the capability to develop products comparable to those we offer. We need to continue to develop products appropriate to our markets to remain competitive as our competitors continue to introduce products with improved features. While we continue to devote significant resources to engineering and development, these efforts may not be successful or competitive products may not be developed and introduced in a timely manner. In addition, while relatively few competitors offer a full range of storage, HPC and converged networking infrastructure products, additional domestic and foreign manufacturers may increase their presence in these markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors. If we are unable to design, develop or introduce competitive new products on a timely basis, our future operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect the pricing of our products to continue to decline, which could reduce our revenues, gross margins and profitability. We expect the average unit prices of our products (on a like-for-like product comparison basis) to decline in the future as a result of competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and customer incentives, new product introductions by us or our competitors, or other factors. In addition, there is a general market trend of customers migrating away from the distribution channel for product purchases to OEMs, where products have a lower average unit price. If we are unable to offset these factors by increasing sales volumes, or reducing product manufacturing costs, our total revenues and gross margins may decline. In addition, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements. Moreover, most of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenues. As a result, we may not be able to decrease our spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, our revenues, gross margins and profitability could decline. Our distributors may not adequately stock and sell our products and their reseller customers may purchase products from our competitors, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our distributors generally offer a diverse array of products from several different manufacturers and suppliers. Accordingly, we are at risk that these distributors may give higher priority to stocking and selling products from other suppliers, thus reducing their efforts and ability to sell our products. A reduction in sales efforts by our current distributors could materially and adversely impact our business or results of operations. In addition, if we decrease our distributor-incentive programs (i.e., competitive pricing and rebates), our distributors may decrease the amount of product purchased from us. This could result in a change of business behavior, and distributors may decide to decrease the amount of product held and reduce their inventory levels, which could impact availability of our products to their customers. 12 Table of Contents As a result of these factors regarding our distributors or other unrelated factors, the reseller customers of our distributors could decide to purchase products developed and manufactured by our competitors. Any loss of demand for our products by value-added resellers and system integrators could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for certain key components. Certain key components used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from single or limited sources. Application-specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, are purchased from single sources and microprocessors, certain connectors, logic chips, power supplies and programmable logic devices are purchased from limited sources. If one of these suppliers experiences an interruption in its ability to supply our needs, or chooses to sever its relationship with us, we may be unable to produce certain of our products, which could result in the loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The global economic downturn and tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely impact our suppliers by limiting their ability to finance their business operations and as a result limit their ability to supply products to us. We are dependent on worldwide third-party subcontractors and contract manufacturers. Third-party subcontractors located outside the United States assemble and test certain products for us. To the extent that we rely upon third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we will not be able to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. If any of these subcontractors experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffer damage to their facilities, experience power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. In addition, the loss of any of our major third-party contract manufacturers could significantly impact our ability to produce products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is a lengthy and expensive process. Some customers will not purchase any products, other than a limited number of evaluation units, until they qualify the manufacturing line for the product, and we may not always be able to satisfy the qualification requirements of these customers. If we are required to change a contract manufacturer or if a contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of our products to our customers could be delayed, resulting in loss or postponement of revenues and potential harm to our competitive position and relationships with customers. In addition, the global economic weakness and tightening of credit markets could adversely affect our third-party subcontractors or contract manufacturers and increase the potential for one or more of them to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our investment securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. As of March 28, 2010, we held short-term investment securities totaling $185.4 million. We invest primarily in debt securities, the majority of which are high investment grade, and we limit the exposure to credit risk through diversification and investment in highly-rated securities. However, investing in highly-rated securities does not entirely mitigate the risk of potential declines in market value. During fiscal 2009, we recorded impairment charges related to investment securities, including securities issued by companies in the financial services sector that had previously been rated AA or higher. A deterioration in the economy, including tightening of credit markets or significant volatility in interest rates, could cause declines in value of our investment securities or could impact the liquidity of the portfolio. If market conditions deteriorate significantly, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our investment securities include $22.3 million of investments in auction rate debt and preferred securities (ARS), the majority of which are rated AA or higher. During late fiscal 2008, the market auctions of many ARS began to fail, including auctions for our ARS. The underlying assets for auction rate debt securities in our portfolio are student loans, substantially all of which are backed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. The underlying assets of our auction rate preferred securities are the respective funds’ investment portfolios. In November 2008, we entered into an agreement with the broker for all of the ARS we currently hold, which provides us with certain rights (ARS Rights), in exchange for the release of potential claims and damages against the broker. The ARS Rights entitle us to sell the related ARS back to the broker for a price equal to the liquidation preference of the ARS plus accrued but unpaid dividends or interest, if any, which price is referred to as “par.” The ARS Rights may be exercised by us at any time between June 30, 2010 and July 2, 2012, if the securities are not earlier redeemed or sold. Under the ARS Rights, the broker may, at its discretion, purchase the 13 Table of Contents ARS at any time through July 2, 2012 without prior notice to us and must pay us par value for the ARS within one day of the sale transaction settlement. While we expect to ultimately recover our investments in the ARS at par, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our ARS should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities prior to redemption by the issuer or the exercise of the ARS Rights. There is also a risk that our broker will default on its obligation to purchase the ARS in the event that we exercise the ARS Rights. Our products are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors that could lead to an increase in our costs, reduce our net revenues or damage our reputation. Our products are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors when first introduced or as newer versions are released. We are also exposed to risks associated with latent defects in existing products and to risks that components purchased from third-party subcontractors and incorporated into our products may not meet our specifications or may otherwise fail prematurely. From time to time, we have found errors in existing, new or enhanced products. In addition, our products are frequently combined with other products, including software, from other vendors, and these products often need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of hardware or software errors could adversely affect the sales of our products, cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. The migration of our customers toward new products could adversely affect our results of operations. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize the effects of product inventories that may become excess and obsolete, as well as ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products in the future or to develop and successfully introduce new products and product enhancements could adversely affect our business or results of operations. When we introduce new products and product enhancements, we face risks relating to product transitions, including risks relating to forecasting demand. Any such adverse event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Historically, the technology industry has developed higher performance ASICs, which create chip-level solutions that replace selected board-level or box-level solutions at a significantly lower average selling price. We have previously offered ASICs to customers for certain applications that have effectively resulted in a lower-priced solution when compared to an adapter solution. This transition to ASICs may also occur with respect to other current and future products. The result of this transition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, a similar adverse effect to our business could occur if there were rapid shifts in customer purchases from our midrange networking infrastructure products to lower-cost products. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates have recently been and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, by discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our effective income tax rates are also affected by intercompany transactions for licenses, services, funding and other items. Given the increased global scope of our operations, and the complexity of global tax and transfer pricing rules and regulations, it has become increasingly difficult to estimate earnings within each tax jurisdiction. If actual earnings within a tax jurisdiction differ materially from our estimates, we may not achieve our expected effective tax rate. Additionally, our effective tax rate may be impacted by the tax effects of acquisitions, examinations by tax authorities, stock-based compensation, uncertain tax positions and newly enacted tax legislation. For example, proposed changes to certain U.S. tax rules for U.S. corporations doing business outside the United States include limiting the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct certain expenses attributable to offshore earnings, modifying the foreign tax credit rules and accelerating taxes related to certain transfers of intangible assets offshore. Although the scope of the proposed changes is unclear, it is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our profitability. Finally, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provisions for income taxes. However, unanticipated outcomes from these continuous examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the environment, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products. In particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and material composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products and product take-back legislation (i.e., legislation that makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products). We could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. Our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, and clean up costs. Further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. The amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we have operations in foreign countries and depend on foreign customers and suppliers, we are subject to international economic, currency, regulatory, political and other risks that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. International revenues accounted for 54%, 52% and 49% of our net revenues for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we maintain operations in foreign countries and a significant portion of our inventory purchases are from suppliers that are located outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to several risks, which include: • a greater difficulty of administering and managing our business globally; • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulatory requirements, such as import or export requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • less effective intellectual property protections; • currency fluctuations; • overlapping or differing tax structures; • political and economic instability, including terrorism and war; and • general trade restrictions. As of March 28, 2010, our international subsidiaries hold approximately 47% of our total cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. These holdings by our international subsidiaries consist primarily of U.S. dollar denominated cash, money market and certificate of deposit accounts. Certain foreign regulations could impact our ability to transfer funds to the United States. Additionally, should we decide to repatriate cash held outside of the United States, we may incur a significant tax obligation. Our international sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, if the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign customers should increase, the resulting effective price increase of our products to such foreign customers could result in decreased sales. In addition, a significant portion of our inventory is purchased from international suppliers, who invoice us in U.S. dollars. If the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign suppliers should decrease, our suppliers may increase prices which could result in a decline of our gross margin. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we and our customers are subject to various import and export regulations of the United States government and other countries. Certain government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. Changes in or violations of any such import or export regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may engage in mergers, acquisitions and strategic investments and these activities may adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. Our future growth may depend in part on our ability to identify and acquire complementary businesses, technologies or product lines that are compatible with our existing business. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the failure of markets for the products of acquired companies to develop as expected; • uncertainties in identifying and pursuing target companies; • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies; • the existence of unknown defects in acquired companies’ products or assets that may not be identified due to the inherent limitations involved in the due diligence process of an acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks associated with entering markets or conducting operations with which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • risks associated with assuming the legal obligations of acquired companies; • risks related to the effect that acquired companies’ internal control processes might have on our financial reporting and management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting; • the potential loss of, or impairment of our relationships with, current customers or failure to retain the acquired companies’ customers; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; and • the incurrence of significant exit charges if products or technologies acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. Further, we may never realize the perceived benefits of a business combination. Acquisitions by us could negatively impact gross margins or dilute stockholders’ investment and cause us to incur debt, contingent liabilities and amortization/impairment charges related to intangible assets, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods could be negatively impacted by mergers and acquisitions. We have made, and could make in the future, investments in technology companies, including privately-held companies in a development stage. Many of these private equity investments are inherently risky because the companies’ businesses may never develop, and we may incur losses related to these investments. In addition, we may be required to write down the carrying value of these investments to reflect other-than-temporary declines in their value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our future success largely depends on our key engineering, sales, marketing and executive personnel, including highly skilled semiconductor design personnel and software developers, and in particular, our Chief Executive Officer, H.K. Desai. If we lose the services of Mr. Desai or other key personnel or fail to hire personnel for key positions, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that the market for key personnel in the industries in which we compete is highly competitive. In particular, periodically we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified engineers and other technical personnel and anticipate that competition for such personnel will increase in the future. Our recent implementation of various cost saving measures, as well as past reductions in force, could negatively impact employee morale and potentially make attracting and retaining qualified employees more difficult in 16 Table of Contents the future. As a result, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel with the skills and expertise necessary to develop new products in the future or to manage our business, both in the United States and abroad. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our total employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage retention of key personnel, and provide competitive compensation packages. However, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant stock-based awards to employees in the future, which may result in changes in our stock-based compensation strategy. These and other developments relating to the provision of stock-based compensation to employees could make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. We expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. Currently, most of our products include ASICs which are manufactured in 180, 130, 90 and 65 nanometer geometry processes. In addition, we continually evaluate smaller geometries. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and difficult to enforce. In some jurisdictions, we have patent protection on certain aspects of our technology. However, we rely primarily on trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology, or that we can maintain such technology as trade secrets. There also can be no assurance that any patents we possess will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We have taken steps in several jurisdictions to enforce our trademarks against third parties. No assurances can be given that we will ultimately be successful in protecting our trademarks. The laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or at all. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be negatively impacted. Disputes relating to claimed infringement of intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business. We have in the past received notices of claimed infringement of intellectual property rights and been involved in intellectual property litigation. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us, or against customers who we are contractually obligated to indemnify, with respect to existing and future products. In addition, individuals and groups are purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as ours. Although patent and intellectual property disputes may be settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and the necessary licenses or similar arrangements may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. As a result, we could be prevented from manufacturing and selling some of our products. In addition, if we litigate these kinds of claims, the litigation could be expensive, time consuming and could divert management’s attention from other matters and there is no guarantee we would prevail. Our business could suffer regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Our supply of silicon chips and other components can also be interrupted by intellectual property infringement claims against our suppliers. If we fail to carefully manage the use of “open source” software in our products, we may be required to license key portions of our products on a royalty-free basis or expose key parts of our source code. Certain of our software may be derived from “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License (GPL), which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of licenses customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not 17 Table of Contents complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. Our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in regulations or standards regarding energy use of our products. We continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of our products. Recent analyses have estimated the amount of global carbon emissions that are due to information technology products. As a result, governmental and non-governmental organizations have turned their attention to development of regulations and standards to drive technological improvements and reduce the amount of carbon emissions. There is a risk that the rush to development of these standards will not fully address the complexity of the technology developed by the IT industry or will favor certain technological approaches. Depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, compliance could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Computer viruses and other forms of tampering with our computer systems or servers may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Despite our implementation of network security measures and anti-virus defenses, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our facilities and the facilities of our suppliers and customers are located in regions that are subject to natural disasters. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, our principal design facilities and our critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We are not specifically insured for earthquakes or other natural disasters. Any personal injury or damage to the facilities as a result of such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, we have operations, suppliers and customers in regions which have historically experienced natural disasters. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, including a hurricane, volcanic eruption, tsunami or fire, affecting any of these regions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 