Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing economic and technological environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following section describes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Our quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our share price. Our quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and, in the future, are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making them difficult to predict. This may lead to volatility in our share price. Some of the factors that are likely to cause these variations are: · the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services; · the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination; · client satisfaction with our services; · our ability to properly manage and execute client projects, especially those under fixed-price arrangements; · our ability to properly price fixed-price contracts to provide for adequate profits; · our ability to maintain our profit margins and manage costs, including those for personnel and support services; · acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses; · changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; and · global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely a function of the rates we charge for our services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our consultants. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our consultants, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. A number of factors affect the rates we charge for our services, including: · our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; · the use of globally-sourced, lower-cost service delivery capabilities by our competitors and our clients; and · general economic conditions. Additionally, a number of factors affect our utilization rates, such as: · seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations; · our ability to transition consultants quickly from completed projects to new engagements; · our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and · our ability to manage employee turnover. Economic conditions and levels of client spending materially affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by regional and global economic conditions. During economic downturns, clients may cancel, reduce or defer expenditures for IT products and services. During such periods, we implement cost management programs to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. Cost management efforts may not be sufficient, however, to 9 maintain our margins during economic downturns. In addition, our business tends to lag behind economic cycles and, consequently, the benefits of economic recoveries to our business typically take longer to realize. If we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology, our business will be negatively affected. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, such as the evolution of the Internet, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. In addition, services, solutions and technologies developed by our competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. We may face damage to our professional reputation and/or legal liability if our clients are not satisfied with our services. As a professional services firm, we depend largely on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality professional services and integrity to attract and retain clients and employees. Additionally, many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. If a client is not satisfied with our services and/or we do not meet our contractual obligations to a client, it could subject us to legal liability and may be very damaging to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. Our contracts typically include provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the applications we develop; however, these provisions may not protect us, or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or under the laws of some jurisdictions. It is possible, due to the nature of our business, that we will be sued in the future. Although we maintain professional liability insurance, the policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. In addition, if we were to fail to properly deliver on a project, we may not be able to collect any related accounts receivable or could even be required to refund amounts paid by the client. Termination of a contract by a significant client and/or cancellation with short notice could reduce our revenue and profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Our five largest clients accounted for approximately 24% of our revenue in 2006. The various agencies of the U.S. Federal Government represent our largest client, accounting for approximately 14% of total revenue in 2006, while no other client accounted for more than 4% of our total revenue. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis. Most individual client assignments are from three to twelve months; however, many of our client relationships have continued for many years. Although they may be subject to penalty provisions, clients may generally cancel a contract at any time with short notice. Under many contracts, clients may reduce or delay their use of our services without penalty. These terminations, reductions or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy generally. When contracts are terminated, we lose the associated revenues and we may not be able to eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our profit margins may be adversely affected. We may experience declines in revenue and profitability if we do not accurately estimate the cost of a large engagement conducted on a fixed-price basis. Although the percentage may vary from year to year, we estimate that approximately 20% of our total services revenue in 2006 is from engagements performed in accordance with fixed-price contracts. When making a proposal or managing a fixed-price engagement, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the project. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and consultants as we plan to apply them to the project. Losses, if any, on fixed-price contracts are recognized when the loss is determined. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-price contracts, including delays caused by factors outside of our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable and may affect the amount of revenue reported in any period. 10 Financial and operational risks of our international operations could result in a decline in revenue and profitability. We have continued to expand our international operations and estimate that our foreign offices currently represent approximately 25% of our total revenue. We presently have offices in 19 foreign countries. Due to our international operations, we are subject to a number of financial and operational risks that may adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including: · the costs and difficulties relating to managing geographically diverse operations; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations (discussed in more detail below); · differences in, and uncertainties arising from changes in, foreign business culture and practices; · restrictions on the movement of cash and the repatriation of earnings; · multiple and possibly overlapping or conflicting tax laws; · the costs of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; · operating losses incurred in certain countries and the non-deductibility of those losses for tax purposes; and · differences in, and uncertainties arising from changes in legal, labor, political and economic conditions, as well as international trade regulations and restrictions, and tariffs. The revenues and expenses of our international operations generally are denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, we are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the U.S. dollar. These exchange rate fluctuations subject us to currency translation risk with respect to the reported results of our international operations and the cost of potential acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will not experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside of the U.S., and there can be no assurance that we will be able, contractually or otherwise, to reduce the currency risks associated with our international operations. We manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through our normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. There is no assurance that we will continue to use such financial instruments in the future or that any such use will be successful in managing or controlling foreign currency risks. We depend on contracts with various federal, state and local government agencies for a significant portion of our revenue, and if the spending policies or budget priorities of these agencies change, we could lose revenue. In 2006, approximately 30% of our revenue was from public sector clients, including federal, state, local and foreign governments and agencies. The market for our services depends largely on federal and state legislative programs and the budgetary capability to support programs, including the continuance of existing programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time by acts of federal and state governments. Many government budgets have been adversely impacted by the economic slowdown. All but one state must operate under a balanced budget. In addition, changes in federal initiatives or in the level of federal spending due to budgetary or deficit considerations may have a significant impact on our future financial performance, as may curtailment of the federal government’s use of consulting and technology services firms, the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies providing services to the federal government and potential delays in the government appropriation process. Additionally, federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. Among other things, governments may terminate contracts with short notice for convenience, as well as for default, and cancel multi-year contracts if funds become unavailable. Unfavorable government audits could require us to adjust previously reported operating results, to forego anticipated revenue and subject us to penalties and sanctions. The government agencies we contract with generally have the authority to audit and review our contracts with them. As part of that process, the government agency reviews our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our previously reported operating results. For example, any costs that were originally reimbursed could be 11 subsequently disallowed. In this case, cash we have already collected may have to be refunded and operating margins may be reduced. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities by us, or we otherwise determine that these activities have occurred, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Any unfavorable determination could adversely affect our ability to bid for new work with one or more jurisdictions. We may have difficulty integrating or managing those businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Since January 1, 2004, we have made three significant acquisitions, only one of which was based in the U.S. The other two were European companies. These acquisitions included SCB Computer Technology, Inc., Ascent Technology Group Limited and Novasoft AG. Each of these acquisitions involved the integration of separate companies that had previously operated independently and had different corporate cultures. We may not succeed at integrating or managing acquired businesses or in managing the larger company that results from these acquisitions. The process of combining these companies may be disruptive to their business and our business and could have an adverse impact on our reputation and/or our financial results as a result of the following difficulties, among others: · loss of key clients or management and technical personnel; · additional costs and delays from difficulties in the integration of the acquired business with our existing business activities; · assumption of unanticipated legal or other financial liabilities; · impairment charges for acquired intangible assets, including goodwill, that decline in value; · inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems; · coordination of geographically diverse organizations; · diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day business of our Company; · becoming significantly leveraged as a result of debt incurred to finance acquisitions; and · dilution to our earnings per share as a result of issuing shares of our stock to finance acquisitions. Difficulties with integration or management may also affect client satisfaction or create problems with the quality of client service, which could have an adverse impact on the reputation of our Company. If we are unable to integrate our acquisitions in a timely manner, or at all, or if we experience difficulty integrating or managing the acquired businesses, we may not achieve the desired level of benefits in connection with the transactions. In addition, the costs of achieving those benefits may be greater than we anticipate. In the course of acquiring companies, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. Historically, we have not always achieved the level of benefits that we expected from our acquisitions, nor have the acquired businesses always achieved the revenue and profitability we anticipated. Such experiences could lead to a subsequent goodwill impairment charge. We will continue to evaluate from time to time, on a selective basis, other strategic acquisitions if we believe they will help us obtain well-trained, high-quality consultants, new service offerings, additional industry expertise, a broader client base or an expanded geographic presence. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying candidates or consummating acquisitions on terms that are acceptable or favorable to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that financing for acquisitions will be available on terms that are acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. We may issue shares of our common stock as part of the purchase price for some or all of these acquisitions. Future issuances of our common stock in connection with acquisitions also may dilute our earnings per share. 12 Our future success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified employees. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor intensive. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract, train, effectively motivate and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Although we invest significant resources in recruiting and retaining employees, there is often considerable competition for certain personnel in the IT services industry, and as a result, employee turnover is generally high. From time to time, we have trouble locating enough highly-qualified candidates that are in our desired geographic locations, with the required specific expertise or at the desired compensation levels. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus, maintain or increase our revenues. Such conditions could also force us to resort to the use of higher-priced subcontractors, which would negatively affect the profitability of the related engagement. In addition, we believe that there are certain key employees within the organization, primarily in the senior management team, who are important for us to meet our objectives. Due to the competitive employment nature of our industry, there is a risk that we will not be able to retain these key employees. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued growth. In addition, uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could result in reduced confidence in our financial performance, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price and result in further turnover of our employees. Our current indebtedness, and any future indebtedness, could adversely affect our business, our operating flexibility and our ability to make full payment on the Debentures. Our aggregate level of indebtedness increased in December 2003 in connection with our issuance of $175 million of Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures (“Debentures”) due 2023. The terms of the Debentures permit us to incur additional debt, including secured debt, and to repurchase our common stock. Additionally, the limited covenants applicable to the Debentures do not require us to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to our financial position or results of operations. We also have a $60 million bank revolving line of credit that expires on September 30, 2008. We have used borrowings under our line of credit to finance some of our acquisitions. This credit facility contains specific limitations on additional indebtedness, liens and merger activity and prohibits the payment of dividends. Additionally, it requires CIBER to maintain specified financial covenants, including an asset coverage ratio, a leverage ratio, a senior leverage ratio and a fixed charges coverage ratio. We have experienced, from time to time, instances of covenant non-compliance under our line of credit that have been waived by our lender. If we fail to comply with any covenants in the future, however, we may not be able to obtain a waiver and could be in default under our credit agreement. In the past, we have been successful in generating cash flow from operations to reduce our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $195.7 million of outstanding indebtedness and had the ability to incur approximately $42 million of additional debt under our revolving credit facility. We may obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet our future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. An increase in our leverage could have significant negative consequences, including: · limiting our cash flow available for general corporate purposes, such as acquisitions, due to the ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service; · limiting our ability to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, future additional debt financing for working capital or acquisitions; · limiting our flexibility to react to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; · exposing us to a risk that a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows, due to economic or adverse developments in our business could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and · exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations due to variable interest rates, which could result in higher interest expense. 13 Our ability to repay or to refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or maintain covenant compliance, whether in the ordinary course of business or upon acceleration of such indebtedness, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute shareholders’ ownership interest. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be undertaken on satisfactory terms, if at all. We may be unable to repurchase our outstanding Debentures for cash on specific dates or following a designated event. Debenture holders may require us to repurchase their Debentures at a repurchase price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest on December 15, 2008, 2010, 2013 and 2018, or at any time prior to their maturity in the case of certain events as described in the indenture. Additionally, the Debentures are convertible at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. CIBER has made an irrevocable election to settle in cash and not in shares 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures under these circumstances. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the repurchase price for all tendered Debentures in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. We may be subject to limitations under our bank line of credit related to the repurchase of our indebtedness. We may be prohibited under future indebtedness from repurchasing any Debentures prior to their stated maturity. In addition, if we fail to repurchase the Debentures as required by the indenture, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which, in turn, would be expected to constitute an event of default under any agreement relating to indebtedness, including our bank line of credit. Important corporate events, such as takeovers, recapitalizations, or similar transactions, may not constitute a designated event under the indenture governing the Debentures, and thus may not permit the Debenture holders to require us to repurchase or redeem the Debentures. We may be unable to obtain surety bonds or letters of credit in support of client engagements on acceptable terms, if available, which could affect our ability to obtain additional client engagements that require them. Some of our government clients, largely in the state and local market, may require us to provide surety bonds or letters of credit as a condition of a new engagement award. We cannot be certain that surety bonds or letters of credit will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain surety bonds or letters of credit on acceptable terms, we may be unable to obtain additional client engagements that require them, which could negatively impact our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $24 million of outstanding surety bonds supporting client engagements for which we may be required to make future payment. The issuer of certain of our outstanding surety bonds requires that we post a letter of credit as collateral to support these possible obligations. We have a $6.0 million letter of credit outstanding to support our current surety program. The surety company, at its discretion, may require us to provide additional collateral as a condition for future surety bond issuances. We cannot be certain that such collateral will be available if needed. The IT services industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We operate in a highly competitive industry that includes a large number of participants. We believe that we currently compete principally with other IT professional services firms, technology vendors and the internal information systems groups of our clients. Many of the companies that provide services in our industry have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our marketplace is experiencing rapid changes in its competitive landscape. Some of our competitors have sought access to public and private capital and others have merged or consolidated with better-capitalized partners. Larger and better-capitalized competitors have enhanced abilities to compete for market share generally and our clients specifically, in some cases, through significant economic incentives to clients to secure contracts. These competitors may also be better able to compete for skilled professionals by offering them large compensation incentives. One or more of our competitors may develop and implement methodologies that result in superior productivity and price reductions without adversely affecting their profit margins. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to 14 entry into our industry. As a result, we have faced and expect to continue to face, competition from new entrants into our market. We may be unable to compete successfully with current or future competitors, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of CIBER or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock, thus affecting the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions include adoption of a Preferred Stock Purchase Rights Agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill” that gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of the outstanding voting stock of CIBER. In addition, the staggered terms of our Board of Directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and as a result, the price of our common stock could decline. The above factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of CIBER; this could adversely affect transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the then-current market price for their shares of CIBER common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 