Item 1A. Risk Factors x Item 2. Properties 4 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 4 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 5 PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 6 Item 6. Selected Financial Data x Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation 6 Item 8. Financial Statements 12 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 12 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 12 Item 9B. Other Information 13 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 14 Item 11. Executive Compensation 15 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related stockholder Matters 16 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 17 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 19 Item 15. Exhibits 18 SIGNATURES 20 2 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Baltic International USA, Inc. ("BIUSA") is a Texas corporation that has provided capital, management, and technical services to start-up and established private companies. In most instances, we are directly involved in management, and in all instances assists in allocation of capital either directly from us or through the investment of third parties. BIUSA has not taken significant profits or management fees from these investments. During 1999, we decided to sell most of our business interests in Eastern Europe and to focus on utilizing our assets to achieve profitability by acquiring business operations based in the United States. We have limited cash resources available for investment purposes. Current Status as a Shell Company Since March 2003, we have been classified as a "shell company". Rule 12b-2 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") defines "shell company," as a company (other than an asset-backed issuer), which has "no operations; and either no or nominal assets; assets consisting of solely cash and cash equivalents; or assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets." We currently plan to investigate and, if such investigation warrants, acquire a target company or business seeking the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation. Our principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond, will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. We will not restrict our potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business. The analysis of new business opportunities has and will be undertaken by or under the supervision of our executive officers. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into any definitive agreement with any party, nor have there been any specific discussions with any potential business combination candidate regarding business opportunities for us. In our efforts to analyze potential acquisition targets, we will consider the following kinds of factors: (a) Potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products; (b) Competitive position as compared to other firms of similar size and experience within the industry segment as well as within the industry as a whole; (c) Strength and diversity of management, either in place or scheduled for recruitment; (d) Capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds, to be provided by us or from operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources; (e) The cost of participation by us as compared to the perceived tangible and intangible values and potentials; (f) The extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced; (g) The accessibility of required management expertise, personnel, raw materials, services, professional assistance and other required items; and (h) Other relevant factors. 3 In applying the foregoing criteria, no one of which will be controlling, our management will attempt to analyze all factors and circumstances and make a determination based upon reasonable investigative measures and available data. Potentially available business opportunities may occur in many different industries, and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Due to the limited capital we have available for investigation, we may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the opportunity to be acquired. Form of Acquisition The manner in which we participate in an opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, our respective needs and desires as well as those of the promoters of the opportunity, and the relative negotiating strength of us and such promoters. It is likely that we will acquire our participation in a business opportunity through the issuance of common stock or other securities. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were our shareholders prior to such reorganization. Our present shareholders will likely not have control of a majority of our voting shares following a reorganization transaction. As part of such a transaction, all or a majority of our directors may resign and new directors may be appointed without any vote by shareholders. In the case of an acquisition, the transaction may be accomplished upon the sole determination of our management without any vote or approval by shareholders. In the case of a statutory merger or consolidation directly involving the Company, it will likely be necessary to call a shareholders' meeting and obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares. The necessity to obtain such shareholder approval may result in delay and additional expense in the consummation of any proposed transaction and will also give rise to certain appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders. Most likely, management will seek to structure any such transaction so as not to require shareholder approval. It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial cost for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to participate in a specific business opportunity, the costs theretofore incurred in the related investigation would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached for the participation in a specific business opportunity, the failure to consummate that transaction may result in our loss of the related costs incurred. Employees We currently employ no persons on a full-time basis and two persons on a part-time basis. We have in the past, and will continue in the future, to employ independent contractors and to make extensive use of our outside directors and others as consultants. None of our employees and our subsidiaries and joint operations are represented by a labor organization. 4 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risk factors, including the following: WE HAVE MINIMAL ASSETS AND HAVE HAD NO OPERATIONS AND GENERATED NO REVENUES FOR APPROXIMATELY THE LAST THREE YEARS. We have had no operations nor any revenues or earnings from operations since March 2003. We have no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in us incurring a net operating loss which will increase continuously until we can consummate a business combination with a target company. There is no assurance that we can identify such a target company and consummate such a business combination. THERE MAY BE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST BETWEEN OUR MANAGEMENT AND OUR NON- MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS. Conflicts of interest create the risk that management may have an incentive to act adversely to the interests of other investors. A conflict of interest may arise between our management's personal pecuniary interest and its fiduciary duty to our shareholders. Further, our management's own pecuniary interest may at some point compromise its fiduciary duty to our shareholders. THE NATURE OF OUR PROPOSED OPERATIONS IS HIGHLY SPECULATIVE. The success of our proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified target company. While management will prefer business combinations with entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event we complete a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of our operations will be dependent upon management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond our control. THE COMPETITION FOR BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND COMBINATIONS IS GREAT. We are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with and acquisitions of business entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies which may be merger or acquisition target candidates for us. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us and, consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, we will also compete with numerous other small public companies in seeking merger or acquisition candidates. IT WILL BE IMPRACTICABLE FOR US TO CONDUCT AN EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGATION PRIOR TO ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION, WHICH MAY LEAD TO A FAILURE TO MEET OUR FIDUCIARY OBLIGATIONS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. Our limited funds and the fact that we only have two part-time officers will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target company. The decision to enter into a business combination, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys or similar information which, if we had more funds available to it, would be desirable. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the principals and advisors associated with the business entity seeking our participation. Management may not be able to meet its fiduciary obligation to us and our shareholders due to the impracticability of completing thorough due diligence of a target company. By our failure to complete a thorough due 5 diligence and exhaustive investigation of a target company, we are more susceptible to derivative litigation or other shareholder suits. In addition, this failure to meet our fiduciary obligations increases the likelihood of plaintiff success in such litigation. WE HAVE NO CURRENT AGREEMENTS IN PLACE FOR A BUSINESS COMBINATION OR OTHER TRANSACTION, AND WE CURRENTLY HAVE NO STANDARDS FOR POTENTIAL BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. We have no current arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a business combination with a specific entity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation by us. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us. We have not established a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which we will require a target company to have achieved, or without which we would not consider a business combination with such business entity. Accordingly, we may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. ANY FUTURE BUSINESS COMBINATION IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE ACTIONS OF OUR TWO OFFICERS, WHO MAY ONLY HAVE A LIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME AVAILABLE TO CONCENTRATE US. While seeking a business combination, management anticipates devoting only a limited amount of time per month to our business. Our officers have not entered into a written employment agreement with us and they are not expected to do so in the foreseeable future. We have not obtained key man life insurance on our officers. Notwithstanding the combined limited experience and time commitment of management, loss of the services of our officers would adversely affect development of our business and likelihood of continuing operations. THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT AS TO WHETHER WE CAN CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We have not generated any revenues since March 2003, nor have we had any operations since March 2003. We had an accumulated deficit of $16,013,475 as of December 31, 2008. These factors among others indicate that we may be unable to continue as a going concern, particularly in the event that we cannot obtain additional financing and/or attain profitable operations. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty and if we cannot continue as a going concern, your investment in us could become devalued or even worthless. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS MAY DELAY OR PRECLUDE AN ACQUISITION. Section 13 of the Exchange Act requires companies subject thereto to provide certain information about significant acquisitions including audited financial statements for the company acquired and a detailed description of the business operations and risks associated with such company's operations. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target companies to prepare such financial statements and descriptive information may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by us. Additionally, acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. WE HAVE NOT CONDUCTED ANY MARKET RESEARCH REGARDING ANY POTENTIAL BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. We have neither conducted, nor have others made available to it, market research indicating that demand exists for the transactions contemplated by us. Even in the event demand exists for a transaction of the type contemplated by us, there is no assurance we will be successful in completing any such business combination. 6 WE DO NOT PLAN TO DIVERSIFY OUR OPERATIONS IN THE EVENT OF A BUSINESS COMBINATION. Our proposed operations, even if successful, will in all likelihood result in our engaging in a business combination with only one target company. Consequently, our activities will be limited to those engaged in by the business entity which we will merge with or acquire. Our inability to diversify its activities into a number of areas may subject us to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with our operations. ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION WILL LIKELY RESULT IN A CHANGE IN CONTROL AND IN OUR MANAGEMENT. A business combination involving the issuance of our common stock will, in all likelihood, result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in the Company. Any such business combination may require our shareholder to sell or transfer all or a portion of their common stock. REDUCTION OF PERCENTAGE SHARE OWNERSHIP FOLLOWING BUSINESS COMBINATION. Our primary plan of operation is based upon a business combination with a business entity which, in all likelihood, will result in our issuing securities to shareholders of such business entity. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued common stock would result in a reduction in percentage of shares owned by our present shareholders and could therefore result in a change in control of our management. FEDERAL AND STATE TAXATION RULES COULD ADVERSELY EFFECT ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION WE MAY UNDERTAKE. Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business combination we may undertake. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. We intend to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both us and the target company; however, there can be no assurance that such business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax- free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction. WE MAY BE FORCED TO RELY ON UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION. We will require audited financial statements from any business entity we propose to acquire. No assurance can be given; however, that audited financials will be available to us prior to a business combination. In cases where audited financials are unavailable, we will have to rely upon unaudited information that has not been verified by outside auditors in making our decision to engage in a transaction with the business entity. The lack of the type of independent verification which audited financial statements would provide increases the risk that we, in evaluating a transaction with such a target company, will not have the benefit of full and accurate information about the financial condition and operating history of the target company. This risk increases the prospect that a business combination with such a business entity might prove to be an unfavorable one for us. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FURTHER GOVERNMENT REGULATION WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Although we will be subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, management believes we will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"), since we will not be engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. If we engage in business combinations which result in our holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If so, we would be required to register as an investment company and could be expected to incur significant registration and compliance costs. We have obtained no formal determination from the Securities and Exchange Commission as to our status under the 7 Investment Company Act and, consequently, violation of the Act could subject us to material adverse consequences. OUR BUSINESS WILL HAVE NO REVENUES UNLESS AND UNTIL WE MERGE WITH OR ACQUIRE AN OPERATING BUSINESS. We have had no revenues from operations for approximately the past four years. We have had no operations for approximately the past four years. We may not realize any revenues unless and until we successfully merge with or acquire an operating business. THE COMPANY MAY ISSUE MORE SHARES IN CONNECTION WITH A MERGER OR ACQUISITION, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of a maximum of 40,000,000 shares of common stock and a maximum of 500,000 shares of preferred stock. Any merger or acquisition effected by us may result in the issuance of additional securities without shareholder approval and may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our common stock held by our then existing shareholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm's-length basis by our management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by our then existing shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without shareholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of common stock or preferred stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of our shareholders will occur and the rights of the holders of common stock might be materially adversely affected. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT FOLLOWING A BUSINESS COMBINATION WITH AN OPERATING BUSINESS, OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE LISTED ON NASDAQ OR ANY OTHER SECURITIES EXCHANGE. Following a business combination, we may seek the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or the American Stock Exchange. However, we cannot assure you that following such a transaction, we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of either of those or any other stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain a listing of our common stock on either of those or any other stock exchange. After completing a business combination, until our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ or another stock exchange, we expect that our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, or another over-the-counter quotation system," where our shareholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital following a business combination. Additionally, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, which failure could cause our common stock become worthless. WE HAVE PREFERRED STOCK AUTHORIZED, WHICH PREFERRED STOCK MAY BE ISSUED BY OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS WITHOUT FURTHER SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL AND WHICH MAY HAVE RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES GREATER THAN OUR COMMON STOCK. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by its Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of its authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future. 