Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are risk factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. A large portion of our capital structure is in the form of debt. As such, we continue to heavily rely on our current lenders as a major source of long term capital. We are dependent on the continued provision of financing from our revolving credit lenders and our senior notes lenders for a major portion of our capital structure. As such we must continually meet our existing financial and non-financial covenants or risk potentially default. In the event of default, the degree to which our current lenders and/or potential future lenders will continue to lend to us will depend in large part on our results from operations and near term business prospects at the time of the default. A recession impacting both U.S. and Europe on automotive and industrial markets once again could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our operations and implement our growth strategy. During the three month period ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced a sudden and significant reduction in customer orders driven by reductions in automotive and industrial end market demand across all our businesses. Prior to this time, our company had never been affected by a recession that had impacted both of our key geographic markets of the U.S. and Europe simultaneously. If we are impacted by a global recession in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations and could lead to additional restructuring and/or impairment charges being incurred. However, we believe we would be in a much better position to weather any recession or economic downturn given the actions taken to permanently reduce our cost base including closing or ceasing operations at four former manufacturing locations. The demand for our products is cyclical, which could adversely impact our revenues. The end markets for fully assembled bearings and other industrial and automotive components are cyclical and tend to decline in response to overall declines in industrial and automotive production. As a result, the market for bearing components and precision metal, plastic, and rubber products is also cyclical and impacted by overall levels of industrial and automotive production. Our sales in the past have been negatively affected, and in the future will be negatively affected, by adverse conditions in the industrial and/or automotive production sectors of the economy or by adverse global or national economic conditions generally. Additionally, inflation in oil and the resulting higher gasoline prices could have a negative impact on demand for our products as a result of consumer and corporate spending reductions. 9 We depend on a very limited number of foreign sources for our primary raw material and are subject to risks of shortages and price fluctuation. The steel that we use to manufacture our metal bearing components is of an extremely high quality and is available from a limited number of producers on a global basis. Due to quality constraints in the U.S. steel industry, we obtain substantially all of the steel used in our U.S. operations of our Metal Bearing Components Segment from non-U.S. suppliers. In addition, we obtain most of the steel used in our European operations from a single European source. If we had to obtain steel from sources other than our current suppliers, we could face higher prices and transportation costs, increased duties or taxes, and shortages of steel. Problems in obtaining steel, particularly 52100 chrome steel, in the quantities that we require and on commercially reasonable terms, could increase our costs, adversely impacting our ability to operate our business efficiently and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating and financial results. Increases in the market demand for steel can have the impact of increasing scrap surcharges we pay in procuring our steel in the form of higher unit prices and could adversely impact the availability of steel. Our commercial terms with key customers allow us to pass along steel price fluctuations through changing the customers’ selling prices. We depend heavily on a relatively limited number of customers, and the loss of any major customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of SKF, one of the largest bearing manufacturers in the world, accounted for approximately 38% of consolidated net sales in 2011. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of sales. During 2011, sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and would lower our operating profit margin and cash flows from operations. We operate in and sell products to customers outside the U.S. and are subject to several risks related to doing business internationally. Because we obtain a majority of our raw materials from overseas suppliers, actively participate in overseas manufacturing operations and sell to a large number of international customers, we face risks associated with the following: • adverse foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies and similar organizations; • the imposition of trade restrictions or prohibitions; • a U.S. Federal Tax code that discourages the repatriation of funds to the U.S.; • the imposition of import or other duties or taxes; and • unstable governments or legal systems in countries in which our suppliers, manufacturing operations, and customers are located. We do not have a hedging program in place associated with consolidating the operating results of our foreign businesses into U.S. Dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar and/or the Euro relative to other currencies may adversely affect our ability to compete with our foreign-based competitors for international, as well as domestic, sales. Also, a change in the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar can negatively impact our consolidated financial results, which are denominated in U.S. Dollars. In addition, due to the typical slower summer manufacturing season in Europe, we expect that revenues in the third fiscal quarter of each year will be lower than in the other quarters of the year. 10 Failure of our product could result in a product recall. The majority of our products go into bearings used in the automotive industry and other critical industrial manufacturing applications. A failure of our components could lead to a product recall. If a recall were to happen as a result of our components failing, we could bear a substantial part of the cost of correction. In addition to the cost of fixing the parts affected by the component, a recall could result in the loss of a portion of or all of the customers’ business. To partially mitigate these risks, we carry limited product recall insurance and have invested heavily in the TS16949 quality program. The costs and difficulties of integrating acquired business could impede our future growth. We cannot assure you that any future acquisition will enhance our financial performance. Acquiring companies involves inherent risk in the areas of environmental and legal issues, information technology, cultural and regulatory matters, product/supplier issues, and financial risk. Our ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of our implementation plans, the ability of our management to oversee and operate effectively the combined operations and our ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies and sales goals. The integration of any acquired businesses might cause us to incur unforeseen costs, which would lower our profit margin and future earnings and would prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to make the acquisitions necessary for us to realize our future growth strategy. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and continues to be an important element of our business strategy. This strategy calls for growth through acquisitions constituting a portion of our future growth objectives, with the remainder resulting from organic growth and increased market penetration. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. In addition, we may borrow funds to acquire other businesses, increasing our interest expense and debt levels. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to complete acquisitions without prior approval of our lenders. Our growth strategy depends in part on companies outsourcing critical components, and if outsourcing does not continue, our business could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy depends in part on major customers continuing to outsource components and expanding the number of components being outsourced. This requires manufacturers to depart significantly from their traditional methods of operations. If major customers do not continue to expand outsourcing efforts or determine to reduce their use of outsourcing, our ability to grow our business could be materially adversely affected. Our market is highly competitive and many of our competitors have significant advantages that could adversely affect our business. The global markets for precision bearing components, precision metal components and plastic and rubber components are highly competitive, with a majority of production represented by the captive production operations of large manufacturers and the balance represented by independent manufacturers. Captive manufacturers make components for internal use and for sale to third parties. All of the captive manufacturers, and many independent manufacturers, are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. Our competitors are continuously exploring and implementing improvements in technology and manufacturing processes in order to improve product quality, and our ability to remain competitive will depend, among other things, on whether we are able to keep pace with such quality improvements in a cost effective manner. Our production capacity has been expanded geographically in recent years to operate in the same markets as our customers. We have expanded our metal bearing components production facilities and capacity over the last several years. Historically, metal bearing component production facilities have not always operated at full capacity. Over the past several years, we have undertaken steps to address a portion of the capacity risk including closing or ceasing operations at certain plants and downsizing employment levels at others. As such, the risk exists that our customers may exit the geographic markets in which our production capacity is located and/or develop vendors in lower cost countries in which we do not have production capacity. 11 The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations and may decline. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • economic recession or other macro-economic factors; • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings (loss) per share, net income (loss) and revenues; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • loss of any member of our senior management team; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • sales of our common stock by stockholders; • general market conditions; • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; • loss of a major customer; and • ability to declare and pay a dividend. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, due to the market capitalization of our stock, our stock tends to be more volatile than large capitalization stocks that comprise the Dow Jones Industrial Average or Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable and may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, a classified board of directors and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to 5.0 million preferred shares without a stockholder vote. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call a special meeting. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Generally, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. We anticipate that the provisions of Section 203 may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. 12 In addition, during 2008 we adopted a shareholder’s rights plan, which expired in December 2011, intended to deter coercive or unfair takeover tactics and prevent an acquirer from gaining control of the company at less than fair value. The plan gave existing shareholders the right to purchase Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company once and only if the acquirer obtained 15% of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 