Item 1A. Risk Factors. Throughout this annual Form 10-K, we make some forward-looking statements, which do not relate to historical or current facts, but are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable that, while considered reasonable by us, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control and are subject to change. The statements also relate to our future prospects and anticipated performance, development and business strategies. These statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, would, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, pursue, will, continue, feel, or the negative or other variations thereof, and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Demand for our products would be adversely affected by: · a lack of acceptance of our RFID technology; · a reduction in the growth rate of new and existing casinos and markets, particularly in Asia; · delays of scheduled openings of newly constructed or planned casinos; and · a decline in the public acceptance of gaming. Our intellectual property rights are subject to risks, including: · development of new proprietary technologies that could be applied by our competitors to make our products obsolete or less desirable; · potential inability to obtain, maintain and defend patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets to protect our newly developed products and technology; · competitors’ infringement upon our existing trademarks, patents, trade secrets copyrights; · costs in defending our intellectual property rights against unexpected claims; · approval of competitors’ patent applications that may restrict our ability to compete effectively; · successful challenge of the patents underlying our exclusive license in the United States regarding our RFID embedded gaming chips; and · ineffective or lack of enforcement of patents by our licensors. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions, including: · uncertainties related to changing economic conditions including those that affect the relative health of the gaming industry; · higher than anticipated manufacturing, selling, administrative, legal and/or distribution costs; 15 · unfavorable changes in United States or foreign state or federal taxation laws or application of such laws that could reduce our profitability; · political or economic instability in international markets, particularly those where we have higher sales concentrations and growth; · changes in interest rates causing a reduction of investment income or in the value of market rate sensitive instruments; · fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tariffs and other trade barriers; · an inability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposures; and · consolidations within the casino industry. We operate in a highly regulated industry and our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions could be adversely affected by: · unfavorable public referendums or anti-gaming legislation, especially in other countries; · unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues; · adverse changes in or findings of non-compliance with applicable governmental gaming regulations; · delays in approvals from regulatory agencies; · a limitation, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming licenses; and · unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our officers, directors or key employees. Our success in the gaming industry depends in part on our ability to develop innovative products and would be adversely affected by: · failure of the casino industry to accept RFID technology with respect to gaming chips and readers; and/or the 125 KHz or the 13.56 MHz RFID technologies in particular; · the development of competing new technologies, making ours obsolete or undesirable; · a decline in the popularity of our gaming products with players and casinos; · a lack of success in developing or adequately servicing new products, in particular our products with security features; and · an increase in the popularity of competitors’ products. Investors cannot exercise control over the Company as a result of principal stockholders’ ownership due to: · the current executive officers and directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 60.4% of the outstanding common stock as of March 24, 2007. As a result, the executive officers and directors of the Company can control the management and affairs of the Company and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions; 16 · this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, even when such change of control is in the best interests of stockholders; and · this concentration of ownership also might adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of our Company’s other stockholders. Our outstanding debt obligations subject us to certain additional risks, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for the payment of interest on our indebtedness and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or business and the industry; and · creating a disadvantage to us compared to competitors with less indebtedness. We are subject to risk related to our combination with GPI SAS, including: · difficulty in moving cash between GPI SAS and GPI USA, primarily due to negative tax consequences; and · volatility in our intercompany international operations. A significant percentage of our revenues result from the sale of our gaming chips to new casinos in Macau, including approximately 75% of GPI SAS’ revenues and approximately 45% of the Company’s revenues on a consolidated basis. As such: · upon the eventual reduction in the rate of new casino openings, and the expansion of existing casinos, in Macau our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to find new growth markets to replace those sales; · the exceptional growth of the Macau market over the last three years has resulted in an increase in the number of competitors in the gaming chip market and in the intensity of such competition. Our success is dependent on key management and sales personnel, including Gerard P. Charlier, our President and Chief Executive Officer. As such: · the loss of Mr. Charlier or our other key personnel, or the limitation of their availability, could adversely affect our business. To a substantial extent, we rely on the ability and experience of Mr. Charlier for our strategic plan, financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives; · Mr. Charlier’s employment agreement expires in September 2007; however, we are currently in the process of negotiating an extension of his employment agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully negotiate such an extension. · since our 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired in 2004, we have not had an equity-based incentive program for our executive officers and key personnel. 17 New legislation or regulations requiring more stringent corporate governance and financial reporting standards have led and will continue to lead to an increase in our costs of compliance: · Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to include an internal control report of management in our 2007 and post-2007 annual Form 10-K. While we intend to fully comply with these new laws and regulations, a failure to comply may impact market perception of our financial condition and could materially harm our business and operating results; · the lack of adequate internal controls, as exhibited by the material weaknesses disclosed in Item 9A—Controls and Procedures, could result in misstated financial statements which could require us to restate our financial statements. Our business operations are subject to other risks, including: · limited or unique suppliers for certain key raw materials for significant products; · the loss or retirement of our key executives or other key employees; · adverse changes in the creditworthiness or parties with whom we have receivables; · issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that this will occur; · the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of existing litigation; · increased costs due to reliance on third party suppliers and contract manufacturers; · casualty, theft or loss of our gaming chips, prior to delivery to casinos; · agreements with casinos in Native American jurisdictions which may subject us to sovereign immunity risk; · natural disasters, pandemic illnesses, travel or tourism decline risks, increased fuel prices, other travel limitations, or acts of God that are concentrated in major gambling locations; · acts of war, potential domestic or international terrorist incidents; and · any failures, difficulties or significant delays in implementing or maintaining our computer information systems could result in material adverse consequences to our business, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 