Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing economic and technological environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following section describes some, but not all, of the factors that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our share price. Our quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and, in the future are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making them difficult to predict. This may lead to volatility in our share price. Some of the factors that are likely to cause these variations are: · the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services; · the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination; · client satisfaction with our services; · our ability to properly manage and execute client projects, especially those under fixed-price arrangements; · our ability to properly price fixed-price contracts to provide for adequate profits; · our ability to maintain our profit margins and manage costs, including those for personnel and support services; · acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses; · changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; and · global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely a function of the rates we charge for our services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our consultants. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our consultants, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. A number of factors affect the rates we charge for our services, including: · our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; · the use of globally-sourced, lower-cost service delivery capabilities by our competitors and our clients; and · general economic conditions. Additionally, a number of factors affect our utilization rates, such as: · seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations; · our ability to transition consultants quickly from completed projects to new engagements; · our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and · our ability to manage employee turnover. Economic conditions and levels of client spending materially affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by regional and global economic conditions. During economic downturns, clients may cancel, reduce or defer expenditures for IT products and services. During such periods, we implement cost management programs to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. Cost management efforts may not be sufficient, however, to maintain our margins during economic downturns. In addition, our business tends to lag behind economic cycles and, consequently, the benefits of economic recoveries to our business typically take longer to realize. 9 If we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology, our business will be negatively affected. Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. In addition, services, solutions and technologies developed by current or future competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our services and we could face damage to our professional reputation and/or legal liability. As a professional services firm, we depend largely on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality professional services and integrity to attract and retain clients. Additionally, many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a subcontractor, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In addition, negative publicity related to our client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. If we do not meet our contractual obligations to a client, it could subject us to legal liability. Our contracts typically include provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the applications we develop; however, these provisions may not protect us, or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or under the laws of some jurisdictions. We may enter into non-standard agreements because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately adhere to our guidelines. We may find ourselves committed to providing services that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not fulfill our obligations, we could face legal liability. Although we maintain professional liability insurance, the policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. In addition, if we were to fail to properly deliver on a project, we may not be able to collect any related accounts receivable or could even be required to refund amounts paid by the client. Termination of a contract by a significant client and/or cancellation with short notice could reduce our revenue and profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Our five largest clients accounted for approximately 22% of our revenue in 2007. The various agencies of the U.S. Federal Government represent our largest client, accounting for approximately 12% of total revenue in 2007, while no other client accounted for more than 3% of our total revenue. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis. Most individual client assignments are from three to twelve months; however, many of our client relationships have continued for many years. Although they may be subject to penalty provisions, clients may generally cancel a contract at any time with short notice. Under many contracts, clients may reduce or delay their use of our services without penalty. These terminations, reductions or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy generally. When contracts are terminated, we lose the associated revenues and we may not be able to eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our profit margins may be adversely affected. We may experience declines in revenue and profitability if we do not accurately estimate the cost of a large engagement conducted on a fixed-price basis. Although the percentage may vary from year to year, we estimate that approximately 20-25% of our total services revenue in 2007 was from engagements performed in accordance with fixed-price contracts. When making a proposal or managing a fixed-price engagement, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the project. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and consultants as we plan to apply them to the project. Losses, if any, on fixed-price contracts are recognized when the loss is determined. Any increased or 10 unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-price contracts, including delays caused by factors outside of our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable and may affect the amount of revenue reported in any period. Financial and operational risks of our international operations could result in a decline in revenue and profitability. We have continued to expand our international operations and estimate that our foreign offices currently represent approximately 30% of our total revenue. We operate in 17 foreign countries. Due to our international operations, we are subject to a number of financial and operational risks that may adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including: · the costs and difficulties relating to managing geographically diverse operations; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations (discussed in more detail below); · differences in, and uncertainties arising from changes in, foreign business culture and practices; · restrictions on the movement of cash and the repatriation of earnings; · multiple and possibly overlapping or conflicting tax laws; · the costs of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; · operating losses incurred in certain countries and the non-deductibility of those losses for tax purposes; and · differences in, and uncertainties arising from changes in legal, labor, political and economic conditions, as well as international trade regulations and restrictions, and tariffs. The revenues and expenses of our international operations generally are denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, we are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the U.S. dollar. These exchange rate fluctuations subject us to currency translation risk with respect to the reported results of our international operations and the cost of potential acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will not experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside of the U.S., and there can be no assurance that we will be able, contractually or otherwise, to reduce the currency risks associated with our international operations. We manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through our normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, with derivative financial instruments. There is no assurance that we will continue to use such financial instruments in the future or that any such use will be successful in managing or controlling foreign currency risks. We depend on contracts with various federal, state and local government agencies for a significant portion of our revenue, and if the spending policies or budget priorities of these agencies change, we could lose revenue. In 2007, approximately 28% of our revenue was from public sector clients, including federal, state, local and foreign governments and agencies. The market for our services depends largely on federal and state legislative programs and the budgetary capability to support programs, including the continuance of existing programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time by acts of federal and state governments. In addition, changes in federal initiatives or in the level of federal spending due to budgetary or deficit considerations may have a significant impact on our future financial performance, as may curtailment of the federal government’s use of consulting and technology services firms, the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies providing services to the federal government and potential delays in the government appropriation process. Additionally, federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. Among other things, governments may terminate contracts with short notice for convenience, as well as for default, and cancel multi-year contracts if funds become unavailable. Unfavorable government audits could require us to adjust previously reported operating results, to forego anticipated revenue and subject us to penalties and sanctions. The government agencies we contract with generally have the authority to audit and review our contracts with them. As part of that process, the government agency reviews our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our 11 previously reported operating results. For example, any costs that were originally reimbursed could be subsequently disallowed. In this case, cash we have already collected may have to be refunded and operating margins may be reduced. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities by us, or we otherwise determine that these activities have occurred, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Any unfavorable determination could adversely affect our ability to bid for new work with one or more jurisdictions. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified employees. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor intensive. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract, train, effectively motivate and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Although we invest significant resources in recruiting and retaining employees, there is often considerable competition for certain personnel in the IT services industry, and as a result, employee turnover is generally high. From time to time, we have trouble locating enough highly-qualified candidates that are in our desired geographic locations, with the required specific expertise or at the desired compensation levels. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus, maintain or increase our revenues. Such conditions could also force us to resort to the use of higher-priced subcontractors, which would adversely affect the profitability of the related engagement. In addition, we believe that there are certain key employees within the organization, primarily in the senior management team, who are important for us to meet our objectives. Due to the competitive employment nature of our industry, there is a risk that we will not be able to retain these key employees. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued growth. In addition, uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could result in reduced confidence in our financial performance, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price and result in further turnover of our employees. Our current level of indebtedness places restrictions upon our business and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2007, we had $210.9 million of outstanding indebtedness, which includes $152.0 million of convertible senior subordinated debentures (“Debentures”) and $58.9 million of bank borrowings. Our $60 million unsecured bank revolving line of credit was replaced in early 2008 with a $200 million senior secured reducing revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) that expires on February 11, 2011. We obtained the Revolving Credit Facility to provide funds for our working capital and general corporate purpose needs, including the repurchase of most or all of our Debentures, which we expect we will be required to repurchase on December 15, 2008. Substantially all of our assets secure the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains specific limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens, stock repurchases, investments, guarantees, mergers, dispositions and acquisitions, and a prohibition on the payment of any dividends. Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility requires CIBER to maintain specified financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio, a maximum senior leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio and a minimum liquidity percentage. On occasion, we have experienced instances of covenant non-compliance under our previous bank revolving line of credit that were waived by our lender. If we fail to comply with any debt covenants in the future, however, we may not be able to obtain a waiver and could be in default under our Revolving Credit Facility. The aggregate commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility reduce by $7.5 million each quarter end beginning on March 31, 2009, and continuing through December 31, 2010. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on February 11, 2011, at which time the remaining $140 million of maximum credit available will terminate and all outstanding balances must be repaid in full. In the past, we have been successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations to reduce our indebtedness; however, that does not mean that we will be successful in doing so in the future. If we are unable to 12 repay outstanding balances that exceed our maximum credit available as the aggregate commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility are reduced, we will be in default unless we can obtain a waiver or extension. Additionally, as we repurchase our Debentures using funds available under the Revolving Credit Facility, we are replacing a fixed rate borrowing with a variable rate borrowing. We pay an annual fixed rate of interest of 2.875% on our Debentures, whereas we pay a variable interest rate based on either the Wells Fargo prime lending rate (“prime”) or a London interbank offered market rate (“LIBOR”) under our Revolving Credit Facility. Given current interest rates, our annual interest expense is expected to increase and will vary based on changes in prime and LIBOR. For example, assuming the $152.0 million of Debentures are repurchased and converted into borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at an assumed rate of interest of 5.00%, we would incur annual interest expense of approximately $7.6 million, as compared to approximately $4.4 million of annual interest expense at the fixed rate of 2.875%. The IT services industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We operate in a highly competitive industry that includes a large number of participants. We believe that we currently compete principally with other IT professional services firms, technology vendors and the internal information systems groups of our clients. Many of the companies that provide services in our industry have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our marketplace is experiencing rapid changes in its competitive landscape. Some of our competitors have sought access to public and private capital and others have merged or consolidated with better-capitalized partners. Larger and better-capitalized competitors have enhanced abilities to compete for market share generally and our clients specifically, in some cases, through significant economic incentives to clients to secure contracts. These competitors may also be better able to compete for skilled professionals by offering them large compensation incentives. One or more of our competitors may develop and implement methodologies that result in superior productivity and price reductions without adversely affecting their profit margins. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our industry. As a result, we have faced and expect to continue to face, competition from new entrants into our market. We may be unable to compete successfully with current or future competitors, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances against receivables, but actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. In addition, timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of CIBER or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock, thus affecting the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions include adoption of a Preferred Stock Purchase Rights Agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill” that gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of the outstanding voting stock of CIBER. In addition, the staggered terms of our Board of Directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and as a result, the price of our common stock could decline. 13 The above factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of CIBER; this could adversely affect transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the then-current market price for their shares of CIBER common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 