ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our securities is highly speculative. The Company's business and ownership of shares of our common stock are subject to numerous risks. You should not purchase our shares if you cannot afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider the following risks before acquiring any of our shares. We have never been, and may never be, profitable. During the past several years, we have attempted, without success, to generate revenues and profits. For the year ended March 31, 2012, we incurred a net loss of $737,154. There can be no assurance that we will ever be profitable. We need additional capital. We need additional financing to continue operations. The amount required depends upon our business operations, and the capital needs of our acquisition of the certain oil and gas leasehold interests. We may be unable to secure this additional required financing on a timely basis, under terms acceptable to us, or at all. To obtain additional financing, we will likely sell additional equity securities, which will further dilute shareholders' ownership in us. Ultimately, if we do not raise the required capital, we may need to cease operations. We are dependent upon our key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the services of Kent A. Rodriguez, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If he terminated his services with us, our business would suffer. There is only a limited trading market for our securities. Our Common Stock is traded on the OTCQB and OCTBB. The prices quoted may not reflect the price at which you can resell your shares. Because of the low price of our stock, we are subject to particular rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that make it difficult for stock brokers to solicit customers to purchase our stock. This reduces the number of potential buyers of our stock and may reduce the value of your shares. There can be no assurance that a trading market for our stock will continue or that you will ever be able to resell your shares at a profit, or at all. 6 Our management controls us. Our current officers and directors own approximately 45% of our outstanding stock and are able to affect the election of the members of our Board of Directors and make corporate decisions. Mr. Rodriguez, by his ownership of Class A Preferred Stock, has the right to vote 40% of our voting securities. Accordingly, even if we issue additional shares to third parties, Mr. Rodriguez will continue to control at least 40% of our voting securities. This voting concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or control or otherwise discourage potential acquirers from attempting to gain control of us. If potential acquirers are deterred, you may lose an opportunity to profit from a possible acquisition. See "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" and "Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters". A significant number of shares are eligible for public sale, potentially depressing our stock price. Under the SEC's Rule 144, shares issued in issuances which are not registered with the SEC generally first become eligible for public resale after six months. Shareholders who are affiliates of us generally may resell only a limited number of their privately acquired shares after six months. After six months, stockholders who are not affiliated with us may resell any number of their privately acquired shares pursuant to Rule 144. The resale of the shares we have privately issued, or the potential for their future public resale, may depress our stock price. Our governing documents and Nevada law may discourage the potential acquisitions of our business. Our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of capital stock and establish their rights, preferences and classes, in most cases without stockholder approval. In addition, we may become subject to anti-takeover provisions found in Section 89.378-78.379 of the Nevada Business Corporation Act which may deter changes in control of our management which have not been approved by our Board of Directors. 