Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing economic and technological environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following section describes some, but not all, of the factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to execute on the key elements of our strategic plan or our strategic plan proves to be less successful than anticipated.If we fail to properly analyze and classify the needs of our clients and refine our offerings, we may not be able to achieve our desired client retention and growth objectives and, as a consequence, our financial performance may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to instill the appropriate operational regimes and delivery methods to increase our overall efficiency and cost effectiveness, we may not be able to increase our profitability, improve our cash flow, and strengthen our balance sheet. If we are unable to successfully execute any or all of the initiatives of our strategic plan, our revenues, operating results, and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we successfully implement our strategic plan, we cannot guarantee that our revenues, operating results, and profitability will improve to the levels we anticipate, or at all. With respect to our previously-announced restructuring initiatives (the most recent of which began in the third quarter of 2013) which we believe will eliminate certain costs, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the cost savings estimated or that we will not encounter the need to spend additional amounts to offset other factors that impact our business.If we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology, our business may be negatively affected. Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our services and solutions may not be successful in the marketplace. In addition, services, solutions and technologies developed by current or future competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could adversely affect our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements.A data security or privacy breach could adversely affect our business.The protection of client, employee, and company data is critical to our reputation and the success of our business. Our clients have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their confidential information. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding with new and constantly changing requirements. Protection of client, employee, and Company data, along with compliance in the constantly changing regulatory environment may add expenses to our business operations. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in system disruptions, negative publicity, legal liability, monetary damages, and damage to our reputation.We may experience declines in revenue and profitability if we do not accurately estimate the cost of engagements conducted on a fixed-price basis.When making a proposal for or managing a fixed-price engagement, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for delivering our services, which are sometimes based on limited data and could be inaccurate. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the costs and efficiencies of our methodologies and consultants as we plan to apply them to the engagement. If we do not accurately estimate our costs and the timing for completion of a fixed-price project, the contract for such a project could prove unprofitable or yield a profit margin that is lower than expected. Some fixed-price engagements are subject to long-term contracts that range from of three to five years. Estimating future year costs on such long-term engagements is extremely difficult and subject to additional risks. Often our cost estimates and the pricing we offer for outsourcing projects anticipate long-term cost savings resulting from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to 8Table of Contentsimplement and benefit from over the term of the outsourcing contract. There is a risk that we will fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing our services or the amount of cost savings that we will experience on long-term contracts, and that we will underprice our contracts as a result, causing an adverse effect on our profits. Losses, if any, on fixed-price contracts are recognized when the loss is determined. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-price contracts, including delays caused by factors outside of our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable and may affect the amount of revenue reported in any period.Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our services, and we could face damage to our professional reputation and/or legal liability.As a professional services firm, we depend largely on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high quality professional services and integrity to attract and retain clients. Additionally, many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses and many involve the protection of confidential client information. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a subcontractor, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, or if a data security breach occurs, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client's dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. Clients that are not satisfied may also seek to terminate contracts with us prematurely, potentially resulting in additional costs and loss of expected revenues. In addition, negative publicity related to our client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. If we do not meet our contractual obligations to a client, we could be subject to legal liability. Our contracts typically include provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the applications we develop; however, these provisions may not protect us, or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or under the laws of some jurisdictions. In addition, we may enter into non-standard agreements because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately adhere to our guidelines. As a result, we may find ourselves committed to providing services that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not fulfill our obligations, we could face legal liability. Although we maintain professional liability insurance, the policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. In addition, if we were to fail to properly deliver on a project, we may not be able to collect any related accounts receivable or could even be required to refund amounts paid by the client.Termination of a contract by a significant client and/or cancellation with short notice could adversely affect our results of operations.Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis. The length of individual projects and engagements can vary greatly. Clients may generally cancel a contract with short notice, subject in some instances to penalty provisions. Termination, reduction, or delay of any given engagement could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, such as factors related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the domestic or global economy generally. A significant number of terminations, reductions, or delays in engagements in any given period of time could negatively and materially impact our revenues and profitability. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by economic conditions and the impacts of economic conditions on our clients' operations and technology spending. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the regional and global economic conditions in which they operate. The uncertainty of global economic conditions has affected, and may continue to affect, demand for our services. These circumstances have caused some of our clients to delay, cancel or scale back their IT projects or IT spending, to seek lower pricing or extended payment terms, to delay payments due to us and, as occurred with several clients, to enter into bankruptcy or liquidation. Reduced demand for IT services has also resulted in reductions in the growth of new business and led to increased price competition for our services and increased the likelihood of entering into contracts that produce lower profit margins. In the event our clients continue to be negatively affected by economic conditions, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.If we do not continue to improve our operational, financial and other internal controls and systems to manage our growth and size or if we are unable to enter, operate and compete effectively in new geographic markets, our results of operation may suffer and the value of our business may be harmed. 9Table of ContentsOur anticipated growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources. Our growth will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational procedures, financial systems, and other internal controls at our operations and facilities around the world. In particular, our continued growth will increase the challenges involved in:•recruiting, training and retaining technical, finance, marketing and management personnel with the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires;•maintaining high levels of client satisfaction;•developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems;•preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; and•effectively managing our personnel and operations and effectively communicating to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies, and goals.In addition, the increasing size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that a member of our personnel will engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, breach our contractual obligations, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train our employees and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we are not successful in developing and implementing the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. If we fail to compete effectively in the new markets we enter, or if the cost of entering those markets is substantially greater than we expect, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our Company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.Our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. Reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers and employees as well as prospective customers and employees. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, we may not be successful in detecting, preventing, or negating all changes in or impacts upon our reputation. Negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our future success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified sales, delivery and technical employees.Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor intensive. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract, train, effectively motivate and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Although we invest significant resources in recruiting and retaining employees, there is often considerable competition within the IT services industry for personnel with certain in-demand qualifications and we may be unable to compete for the most desirable employees.From time to time, we have trouble locating sufficient numbers of highly-qualified candidates located in our desired geographic locations, with the required specific expertise or at the desired compensation levels. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus, maintain or increase our revenues. Such conditions could also force us to resort to the use of higher-priced subcontractors, which would adversely affect the profitability of the related engagement. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in India will become increasingly important as we implement our plans to expand our Global Solutions Center in India and increase the number of employees working there.In addition, we believe that there are certain key employees within the organization, primarily in the senior management team, who are important for us to meet our objectives. Due to the competitive employment nature of our industry, there is a risk that we will not be able to retain these key employees. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued growth. In addition, uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could result in reduced confidence in our financial performance, which could cause fluctuations in the price of our securities and result in further turnover of our employees.We cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. 10Table of ContentsWe are required to comply with numerous and constantly changing laws and regulations in jurisdictions around the world. If our compliance efforts prove insufficient or any of our employees fail to comply with, or intentionally disregard, any of our policies or applicable laws or regulations, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the Company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, and operating results.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further limit our ability to protect our intellectual property. In addition to intellectual property laws in each jurisdiction where we operate, we rely upon a combination of confidentiality policies, nondisclosure agreements, and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. In some jurisdictions where we operate, there is uncertainty concerning the scope of available intellectual property protection for software and business methods, which are fields in which we rely on intellectual property laws to protect our rights. Our efforts to protect intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees, or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money, and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects.Our services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, or we might lose our ability to utilize rights we claim in intellectual property or the intellectual property of others.We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, or the third-party software and solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we could have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims could harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services or solutions. In a number of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be costly, injure our reputation, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We might not be able to enter into these royalty or licensing arrangements on acceptable terms. If a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered against our clients or our own services or operations, causing further damages. We could lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. Third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual property assets could be acquired or sued, which could disrupt use of their products or services by us and our clients. If our ability to provide services and solutions to our clients is impaired, our operating results could be adversely affected.In addition, if we are unable to capture the intellectual capital developed by our employees and convert such intellectual capital into reusable and commercially marketable intellectual property, our costs of delivering our services may increase, our development efforts may be duplicated and we may lose the economic advantage of owning and licensing Ciber intellectual property.If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients for the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances against receivables, but actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. In addition, timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. Recent global economic conditions and other factors 11Table of Contentsresulted in financial difficulties for a number of our clients and, consequentially, we experienced a greater amount of bad debt expense.If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in the collection of, and/or be unable to collect, our client balances and, if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our credit facility, an asset-based facility, limits our operational and financial flexibility. We have an asset-based revolving line of credit of up to $60 million, with the amount available for borrowing at any time determined based on a valuation of our eligible accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving line of credit. Any borrowings we make under our credit facility are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets.We are dependent on our asset-based revolving credit facility to meet working capital and operational requirements, and access to our asset-based facility is dependent on, among other things, the borrowing base valuation of our eligible accounts receivable and the absence of a default under the credit agreement. The amount available for borrowing under the credit facility could be significantly reduced if there is a reduction in our eligible accounts receivable. Any loss or material reduction of our ability to access funds under the credit facility could materially and negatively impact our liquidity.Our ability to maintain an adequate borrowing base valuation and to make future principal and interest payments in respect of our debt depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments, and economic conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, competitive, economic, and other factors that may be outside of our control.The credit agreement includes, among other provisions, specific limitations on our ability to take certain actions, which include, among others, our ability to incur indebtedness or liens, make investments, issue guarantees, enter into certain mergers, dispositions, acquisitions, liquidations or dissolutions, issue additional securities, pay dividends, make loans and advances, and enter into transactions with affiliates. A default, if not waived or cured by amendment, could cause our debt to become immediately due and payable and terminate our ability to draw upon the funds under the credit agreement. We may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, and even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. This could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if we needed to obtain a waiver under, or an amendment to, the credit agreement in the future, or if we seek other financing, if available, our cost of borrowing could increase significantly.Our revenues, operating results, and profitability may vary from quarter to quarter and may result in increased volatility in the price of our stock.Our quarterly revenues, operating results, and profitability have varied significantly in the past and may continue to do so. Factors that have caused and may continue to cause variations in our revenues, operating results, and profitability include:•the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services;•the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination;•client satisfaction with our services;•our clients' financial ability to pay for our services;•our ability to properly manage and execute client projects, especially those under fixed-price arrangements;•our ability to properly price fixed-price contracts to provide for adequate profits;•our ability to maintain our profit margins and manage costs, including those for personnel and support services;•restructuring costs or charges related to changes in our business operations 12Table of Contents•acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses;•costs related to the discontinued operations of our former Federal division, information technology outsourcing practice, and Russian operations, including possible additional future related costs we may incur;•costs or charges associated with potential asset sales or dispositions;•changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;•changes in significant accounting estimates;•changes in interest rates on our debts;•currency exchange rate fluctuations;•changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; and•global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks.If we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our consultants, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. A number of factors affect the rates we charge for our services, including:•our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services;•changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;•the introduction of new products or services by us or by our competitors;•the use of globally-sourced, lower-cost service delivery capabilities by our competitors and our clients; and•economic conditions.Additionally, a number of factors affect our utilization rates, such as:•seasonality, including number of workdays, holidays and vacations;•our ability to transition consultants quickly from completed projects to new engagements;•our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and•our ability to manage employee turnover.As a services business, our largest expense is salaries and payroll-related expenses. However, it is our skilled employees that generate our revenues. Balancing our workforce levels against the demands for our services is difficult. Delays or cutbacks in projects or delays in finding new projects increase the non-productive time of our consultants which decrease our utilization levels and our margins. We generally cannot reduce our labor costs as quickly as negative changes in revenue can occur. In addition, in a number of the countries in which we operate, the local labor laws make it very expensive to involuntarily terminate employees. As a result, some of operations may retain underutilized employees for longer periods.Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could have adverse effects on our business and operating results.Our operations outside of the US represented just over half of our revenues in 2013. Due to our international operations, we are subject to a number of financial and operational risks that may adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including:• the costs and difficulties related to managing geographically diverse operations; 13Table of Contents• differences in, and uncertainties arising from, changes in foreign business culture and practices;• our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for foreign nationals;• restrictions on the movement of cash and the repatriation of earnings;• multiple and possibly overlapping or conflicting tax laws;• the costs of complying with a wide variety of local laws;• operating losses incurred in certain countries and the non-deductibility of those losses for tax purposes; and• differences in, and uncertainties arising from, changes in legal, labor, political and economic conditions.The revenues and expenses of our international operations generally are denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, we are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the U.S. dollar. These exchange rate fluctuations subject us to currency translation risk with respect to the reported results of our international operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce the currency risks associated with our international operations. We manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through our normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, with derivative financial instruments. There is no assurance that we will continue to use such financial instruments in the future or that any such use will be successful in managing or controlling foreign currency risks.We have experienced and may continue to experience material impacts to revenues and earnings due to fluctuations in foreign currency rates, and in addition, these impacts may cause material fluctuations in our revenues and earnings from period to period. Significant strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar against currencies like the Great Britain Pound and the Euro may materially impact our revenue and profits. As we continue to expand our presence in India, we will have increased exposure to fluctuations between the Indian Rupee and the U.S. dollar. In addition, we have transactions with clients, as well as inter-company transactions between our subsidiaries, that cross currencies and expose us to foreign currency gains and losses. These types of events are difficult to predict and may recur.The IT services industry, in the U.S. and internationally, is highly competitive, with increased focus on offshore capability and we may not be able to compete effectively in this evolving marketplace. We operate in a highly competitive industry that includes a large number of diverse participants. We currently compete principally with other IT professional services firms and technology vendors, including a variety of large multinational providers and large offshore service providers that offer some or all of the services that we offer, as well as many niche solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area. Many of the companies that provide services in our industry have significantly greater financial, technical, offshore and marketing resources than we do. In addition, a client may choose to use its own resources rather than to engage an outside firm for the type of services that we provide. We may be unable to compete successfully with current or future competitors, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. Additionally, some of our competitors, particularly those located in regions with lower costs of doing business, may be able to provide services and solutions to clients at lower costs or on more attractive terms. Increased competition has, and may continue to, put downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our services. In particular, one key element of our ability to improve our profitability in the face of these trends is our ability to implement and leverage a global workforce, deploying lower-cost resources to provide quality work at higher margins. If we are not able to integrate our global workforce in services delivery, we may not be able to maintain or improve our profitability. Our operations are vulnerable to disruptions that may impact our results of operations and from which we may not recover.As a services business, our operations around the world are highly dependent upon our employees, independent contractors, and service providers being able to effectively serve our clients. That ability may be impacted by many types of events that impact the people themselves or limit access to facilities or technology required to perform work. Examples of such events include severe weather, pandemics, natural disasters, infrastructure outages, terrorist attacks, governmental actions, political or economic instability, civil unrest, or the threat or perception that such events might occur. In such circumstances, our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective. In any such event, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition to the risk that we may not be able to serve our clients, we may be unable to protect our employees or facilities from harm. Where we have facilities with concentrations of employees (for instance, in several cities in 14Table of Contentsthe US, Europe, and India), our risk of disruption that materially impacts our results of operations may be higher. Insurance, if available for a given disruptive event, may be inadequate to compensate for the losses involved. If a disruption continues for an extended period of time, or if a short-term disruption renders a material portion of our operations ineffective for an extended period of time, our business may suffer material and potentially irreparable harm. We might not be successful at identifying, acquiring, or integrating businesses or entering into joint ventures. In the past we have made, and in the future it may be necessary to pursue, strategic and targeted acquisitions and joint ventures intended to enhance or add to our offerings of services and solutions, or to enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets. Depending on the opportunities available, we may increase the amount of investment in such acquisitions or joint ventures. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or joint venture opportunities. We also might not succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire or create through a joint venture. Ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition, or integration activities. In addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Business combination and investment transactions may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, assumed litigation and other liabilities, and legal, accounting, and financial advisory fees. We may have difficulties as a result of entering into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions.We might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition or joint venture we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment or may lose money. We may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from a company we acquire or in which we invest, including from that company’s known and unknown obligations, intellectual property or other assets, terminated employees, current or former clients, or other third parties, and may fail to identify or adequately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring, investing in or partnering with a company, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions or liabilities resulting from an acquisition target’s previous activities, any of which could result in unexpected legal or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes or other adverse effects on our business. By their nature, joint ventures involve a lesser degree of control over the business operations of the joint venture itself, particularly when we have a minority position. This lesser degree of control may expose us to additional reputational, financial, legal, compliance or operational risks. Litigation, indemnification claims and other unforeseen claims and liabilities may arise from the acquisition or operation of acquired businesses. For example, we may face litigation or other claims as a result of certain terms and conditions of the acquisition agreement, such as earnout payments or closing net asset adjustments. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisition and joint ventures for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability, or competitive position in specific markets or services.We could incur additional losses due to further impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as a result of numerous acquisitions. At December 31, 2013, the carrying value of our goodwill was $281.7 million. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually and do so during the second quarter of each year, as well as on an interim basis to the extent that factors or indicators become apparent that could reduce the fair value of any of our reporting units below its book value. These determinations are based in part on several factors, including our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of each of our business units and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. A significant downward revision in the fair value of one or more of our business units that causes the carrying value to exceed the fair value, as determined based on discounted future cash flows of the related business, could cause goodwill to be considered impaired, and could result in a non-cash impairment charge in our consolidated statement of operations.We have recorded several goodwill impairment charges in the past. The forecasts utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis as part of our impairment test assume future revenue and profitability growth in each of our divisions during the next five years and beyond. If our operating divisions cannot obtain, or we determine at a later date that we no longer expect them to obtain the projected levels of profitability, future goodwill impairment tests may also result in an impairment charge. There can be no assurances that our operating divisions will be able to achieve our estimated levels of profitability. We cannot be certain that goodwill impairment will not be required during future periods. 15Table of ContentsWe depend on contracts with various public sector agencies for a significant portion of our revenue and, if the spending policies or budget priorities of these agencies change, we could lose revenue. In 2013, approximately 14% of our total revenue was from public sector clients, including state, local, and foreign governments and agencies. Such programs can be modified or amended at any time by acts of the governments or agencies involved. Moreover, a number of state and local governments and agencies are suffering from significant budget shortfalls, which may result in curtailment of spending on consulting and technology services. Many contracts with public sector clients contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. Among other things, governments may cancel multi-year contracts if funds become unavailable during the term of the engagement. Cancellation or reduction in price or scope could limit our ability to recover incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. If insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our investments. Unfavorable government audits could require us to adjust previously reported operating results, to forego anticipated revenue and subject us to penalties and sanctions. Although we sold our Federal division in 2012, we remain responsible for any audits related to certain engagements for the US federal government performed prior to the sale. The various agencies that our Federal division contracted with generally have the right to audit and review past work. As part of that process, the government agency could review our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure, and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Any such audit could result in a substantial adjustment to our previously reported operating results. For example, any costs that were originally reimbursed could be subsequently disallowed, one consequence of which could be refunding cash collected in the past.If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities by us, or we otherwise determine that these activities have occurred, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from continuing to do business, or bidding on new business, with governments in various jurisdictions.We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of Ciber or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock, thus affecting the market price of our securities. We have adopted a Rights Agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill," under which each shareholder of the Company holds one share purchase right, which we refer to as a "Right," for each share of Company common stock held. The Rights become exercisable upon the occurrence of certain events and may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult and expensive. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including a provision that gives our board of directors the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock by our board of directors pursuant to our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, a majority of the outstanding voting stock of Ciber.In addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control because it is not possible for shareholders to replace all of the members of the board of directors in a single election. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving for three years between elections. As a result, only approximately 1/3 of the board of directors may be replaced at any given regular, annual meeting of the shareholders. The above factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Ciber. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities and as a result, the price of our securities could decline. In addition, these provisions could prohibit, discourage or adversely affect transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise be offered a premium over the then-current market price for their Ciber securities.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16Table of ContentsNone. 