ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have affected, or may in the future affect, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations in a material and adverse manner. We are affected by the level of demand in the construction industry. Demand for our products is directly related to the level of activity in the construction industry, which includes residential, commercial and infrastructure construction. While the latest downturn in residential and commercial construction materially impacted our business, certain economic fundamentals improved in calendar 2012; however, the rate and sustainability of such improvement remains uncertain. Furthermore, activity in the infrastructure construction business is directly related to the amount of government funding available for such projects, which is affected by the budget constraints currently being experienced by federal, state and local governments. Any decrease in the amount of government funds available for such projects or any decrease in construction activity in general (including continued weakness in residential construction or commercial construction) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is seasonal in nature, and this causes our quarterly results to vary significantly. A majority of our business is seasonal with peak revenues and profits occurring primarily in the months of April through November when the weather in our markets is more favorable to construction activity. Quarterly results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Such variations could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We are subject to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions during peak construction periods and other unexpected operational difficulties. Unfavorable weather conditions, such as snow, hurricanes, tropical storms and heavy rainfall, can reduce construction activity and adversely affect demand for construction products. Similarly, operational difficulties, such as business interruption due to required maintenance or loss of power, can increase our costs and reduce our production. In particular, the occurrence of unfavorable weather conditions and other unexpected operational difficulties during peak construction periods could adversely affect operating income and cash flow and could have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations for the full year. We and our customers participate in cyclical industries and regional markets, which are subject to industry downturns. A majority of our revenues are from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions. In addition, since our operations are in a variety of geographic markets, our businesses are subject to differing economic conditions in each such geographic market. Economic downturns in the industries to which we sell our products or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations generally have an adverse effect on demand for our products and adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. In general, any further downturns in these industries or regions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could affect access to credit. Difficult economic conditions can cause a contraction in the availability, and increase the cost, of credit in the marketplace. This could potentially reduce the sources of liquidity for the Company and our customers. 15 Table of Contents Our and our customers operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, including environmental laws, which can be costly and burdensome. Our operations and those of our customers are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such matters as land usage, street and highway usage, noise level and health and safety and environmental matters. In many instances, various certificates, permits or licenses are required in order for us or our customers to conduct business or for construction and related operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements or that demand for our products will not be adversely affected by regulatory issues affecting our customers. In addition, future developments, such as the discovery of new facts or conditions, the enactment or adoption of new or stricter laws or regulations (including without limitation, climate change legislation described below), or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us or prevent us from opening, expanding or modifying plants or facilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, GHGs are regulated as pollutants under the Clean Air Act and subject to reporting and permitting requirements. Future consequences of GHG permitting requirements and potential emission reduction measures for our operations may be significant because (1) the cement manufacturing process requires the combustion of large amounts of fuel, (2) in our cement manufacturing process, the production of carbon dioxide is a byproduct of the calcination process, whereby carbon dioxide is removed from calcium carbonate to produce calcium oxide, and (3) our gypsum wallboard manufacturing process combusts a significant amount of fossil fuel, especially natural gas. On September 9, 2010, the EPA finalized National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAP, for Portland cement plants (“PC MACT”). The PC MACT will require a significant reduction in emissions of certain hazardous air pollutants from Portland cement kilns. The PC MACT sets limits on mercury emissions from existing Portland cement kilns and increases the stringency of emission limits for new kilns. The PC MACT also sets emission limits for total hydrocarbons, particulate matter (as a surrogate for metal pollutants) and acid gases from cement kilns of all sizes. The PC MACT was scheduled to take full effect in September 2013; however, as a result of a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Portland Cement Ass’n. v. EPA, 655 F.3d 177 (D.C. Cir.) arising from industry challenges to the PC MACT, the EPA proposed a settlement agreement with industry petitioners in May 2012. In February 2013, the EPA published the final revised rule to the PC MACT which extended the compliance date until September 9, 2015 for existing cement kilns and made certain changes to the rules governing particulate matter monitoring methods and emissions limits, among other revisions. The PC MACT, both as originally promulgated and as revised, will materially increase capital costs and costs of production for the Company and the industry as a whole. On March 21, 2011 EPA proposed revised Standards of Performance for New Sources and Emissions Guidelines for Existing Sources for Commercial/Industrial Solid Waste Incinerators (CISWI) per Section 129 of the Clean Air Act CISWI rule, which created emission standards for 4 subcategories of industrial facilities, one of which is “Waste Burning Kilns.” EPA simultaneously stayed the rule for further reconsideration. On February 12, 2013, the EPA finalized revisions to the CISWI regulations. For those cement kilns that utilize non-hazardous secondary materials (“NHSM”) as defined in a rule first finalized on March 21, 2011 (and slightly revised on February 12, 2013), CISWI will require significant reductions in emissions of certain pollutants from applicable cement kilns. The CISWI rule sets forth emission standards for mercury, carbon monoxide, acid gases, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, certain metals (lead and cadmium) and more stringent standards than PC NESHAP for particulate matter and dioxin/furans. The CISWI and NHSM rule as currently promulgated will materially increase capital costs and cost for production but only for those facilities that will be using applicable solid wastes as fuel. Note the compliance date for this rule is approximately early 2018 (either 3 years after State CISWI plan approval, or 5 years from the date of the final rule, whichever is sooner). It is anticipated that the CISWI and NHSM rules will materially increase capital costs and costs of production for the Company and the industry as a whole. 16 Table of Contents In 2010, the EPA released proposed regulations to address the storage and disposal of coal combustion products, which include fly ash and flue gas desulfurization gypsum (“synthetic gypsum”). We use synthetic gypsum in wallboard manufactured at our Georgetown, South Carolina plant. In its release, the EPA is proposing two alternative regulations. Under one proposal, the EPA would characterize coal combustion products destined for disposal as a special waste under Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, which is the Subtitle that regulates hazardous wastes. However, under this proposal, beneficial encapsulated use of coal combustion products, including synthetic gypsum, would continue to be exempt under the Bevill Amendment and not warrant regulation. Under the other proposal, the EPA would continue to regulate coal combustion products under Subtitle D of RCRA, which regulates solid wastes that are not hazardous wastes. EPA has recently stated that Subtitle D regulation could be sufficient to protect human health and the environment. The EPA has emphasized that it does not wish to discourage the beneficial reuse of coal combustion products under either of its two proposals. It is not possible to accurately predict the regulations that will be ultimately adopted, if any. In April 2012 a number of environmental and community groups filed suit seeking to force the EPA to complete this rulemaking. That case is pending in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. It is anticipated that a final rule will be issued in 2014. It is possible that such rulemaking could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, depending on how any such regulation affects our costs or the demand for our products utilizing synthetic gypsum. The Recently Acquired Assets are subject to government laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment and other matters that may impose significant costs and future requirements that could limit the way we operate our business. The Recently Acquired Assets are subject to certain obligations under a consent decree between Lafarge North America and the United States requiring the establishment of facility-specific emissions limitations for certain air pollutants. Not all specific limitations have been finalized; however, upon determination, these limitations, along with specific emissions limitations that have already been finalized, will apply to our operation of the Recently Acquired Assets. It is difficult to predict with reasonable certainty the impact of these limitations on the operations or operating costs of the Recently Acquired Assets. Limitations that significantly restrict emissions levels beyond current operating levels may require additional investments by us or place limitations on operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition or on our financial condition or results of operations. The Recently Acquired Assets are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to, among others, environmental matters, including laws and regulations not applicable to our business prior to the Acquisition such as the NESHAP for hazardous waste combustors (the “HWC MACT”), which imposes emission limitations and operating limits on cement kilns that are fueled by hazardous wastes, including those operated at the cement plant acquired by us in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Compliance with the HWC MACT could impose additional liabilities on us or require additional investment by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, new developments, such as new laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us or prevent us from operating or expanding plants or facilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, revised HWC MACT regulations would apply to one of the cement kilns used by the Recently Acquired Assets. This revision may require new control requirements and significant capital expenditure for compliance. The revised regulations have not been proposed and compliance is not expected to be required for approximately 5 years. In 2013, the EPA adopted final rules regulating emissions of air pollutants from commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units (the “CISWI standards”), are likely to apply to one of the cement kilns used by the Recently Acquired Assets and may impose new control requirements requiring significant capital expenditures for compliance. Existing CISWI units will need to comply with the CISWI standards no later than three years after the EPA approves a state plan or five years after the publication date of the final amendments, whichever is earlier. 17 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs in connection with pending and future litigation. We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including but not limited to personal injury, environmental, antitrust, tax, asbestos, intellectual property, commercial, contract, product liability, health and safety, and employment matters. The outcome of pending or future lawsuits, claims, investigations or proceedings is often difficult to predict, but could be adverse and material in amount. In addition, the defense of these lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings may divert our management’s attention and we may incur significant costs in defending these matters. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this report. Our products are commodities, which are subject to significant changes in supply and demand and price fluctuations. The products sold by us are commodities and competition among manufacturers is based largely on price. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond our control. Increases in the production capacity of industry participants for products such as gypsum wallboard or cement or increases in cement imports tend to create an oversupply of such products leading to an imbalance between supply and demand, which can have a negative impact on product prices. There can be no assurance that prices for products sold by us will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are subject to significant changes in the cost and availability of fuel, energy and other raw materials. Major cost components in each of our businesses are the costs of fuel, energy and raw materials. Significant increases in the costs of fuel, energy or raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability could materially and adversely affect our sales and operating profits. Prices for fuel, energy or raw materials used in connection with our businesses could change significantly in a short period of time for reasons outside our control. Prices for fuel and electrical power, which are significant components of the costs associated with our gypsum wallboard and cement businesses, have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may increase in the future. In the event of large or rapid increases in prices, we may not be able to pass the increases through to our customers in full, which would reduce our operating margin. We may become subject to significant clean-up, remediation and other liabilities under applicable environmental laws. Our operations are subject to state, federal and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose liability for cleanup or remediation of environmental pollution and hazardous waste arising from past acts. These laws and regulations also require pollution control and prevention, site restoration and operating permits and/or approvals to conduct certain of our operations or expand or modify our facilities. Certain of our operations may from time-to-time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Additionally, any future laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions would likely have a negative impact on our business or results of operations, either through the imposition of raw material or production limitations, fuel-use or carbon taxes or emission limitations or reductions. We are unable to estimate accurately the impact on our business or results of operations of any such law or regulation at this time. Risk of environmental liability (including the incurrence of fines, penalties or other sanctions or litigation liability) is inherent in the operation of our businesses. As a result, it is possible that environmental liabilities and compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations in the future. See “Item 1. Business – Industry Segment Information – Environmental Matters” in this report for more information on our regulatory and environmental matters. 18 Table of Contents Significant changes in the cost and availability of transportation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, such as coal or coke, are transported to our facilities by truck or rail. In addition, the transportation costs associated with the delivery of our wallboard products are a significant portion of the variable cost of our gypsum wallboard segment. Significant increases in the cost of fuel or energy can result in material increases in the cost of transportation, which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. In addition, reductions in the availability of certain modes of transportation such as rail or trucking could limit our ability to deliver product and therefore materially and adversely affect our operating profits. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants and require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests, which limit our flexibility and could give rise to a default if we are unable to remain in compliance. Our Credit Facility and the Note Purchase Agreements governing our Senior Notes contain, among other things, covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities, including but not limited to our ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Sell assets or make other fundamental changes; • Engage in mergers and acquisitions; • Pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • Make investments, loans, advances or guarantees; • Encumber the assets of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries; • Enter into transactions with our affiliates. In addition, these agreements require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Events beyond our control, including the changes in general business and economic conditions, may impair our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants or failure to maintain the required ratios and meet the required tests may result in an event of default under these agreements. This may allow the lenders under these agreements to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, terminate any commitments to extend further credit to us and pursue other remedies available to them under the applicable agreements. If this occurs, our indebtedness may be accelerated and we may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, or repay the accelerated indebtedness. We incurred substantial indebtedness in order to finance the Acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business and reduce our profitability. In order to finance the Acquisition, we incurred borrowings of approximately $310.0 million under the Credit Facility. We expect to use cash flow generated from our future operations to make payments on our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures. Our future ability to satisfy these obligations and make these expenditures is subject, to some extent, to financial, market, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our substantial debt obligations could have negative consequences to our business, which could impede, restrict or delay the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. For example: • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts, capital expenditures or strategic acquisitions; • we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our substantial debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, selling equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures or restructuring our debt; • we may not be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all to fund future working capital, capital investments and other business activities; and 19 Table of Contents • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Our production facilities may experience unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance. Interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment. Such equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, violent weather conditions or unexpected operational difficulties. We also have periodic scheduled shut-downs to perform maintenance on our facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Pension assets and costs associated with employee benefit plans generally are affected by economic and market conditions. The current economic environment could negatively impact the fair value of pension assets, which could increase future funding requirements to our pension trusts. More generally, our costs are significantly affected by expenses related to our employee benefit plans. The recognition of costs and liabilities associated with these plans for financial reporting purposes is affected by assumptions made by management and used by actuaries engaged by us to calculate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and the annual expense recognized for these plans. Economic and market factors and conditions could affect any of these assumptions and may affect our estimated and actual employee benefit plan costs and our results of operations. Inflation and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business and demand for our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is significantly affected by the movement of interest rates. Interest rates have a direct impact on the level of residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity by impacting the cost of borrowed funds to builders. Higher interest rates could result in decreased demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, increases in interest rates could result in higher interest expense related to borrowings under our Credit Facility. Inflation can result in higher interest rates. With inflation, the costs of capital increase, and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline. Current or future efforts by the government to stimulate the economy may increase the risk of significant inflation and its direct and indirect adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Any new business opportunities we may elect to pursue will be subject to the risks typically associated with the early stages of business development or product line expansion. We are continuing to pursue opportunities which are natural extensions of our existing core businesses and which allow us to leverage our core competencies, existing infrastructure and customer relationships. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Executive Summary—New Business Initiatives.” Our likelihood of success in pursuing and realizing these opportunities must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered in connection with the early phases of business development or product line expansion, including the difficulties involved in obtaining permits; planning and constructing new facilities; transporting and storing products; establishing, maintaining or expanding customer relationships; as well navigating the regulatory environment in which we operate. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the pursuit and realization of these opportunities. We may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition and the Acquisition may adversely impact our existing operations. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition as we may not be able to accomplish the integration of the Recently Acquired Assets within the anticipated costs or timeframe. In general, we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely achieve the anticipated incremental revenues, cost savings, 20 Table of Contents operational synergies and other expected benefits of the Acquisition. In addition, the market price of our common stock may decline if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition as readily or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the Acquisition on our financial results is not consistent with expectations of financial or industry analysts. The diversion of our management’s attention from our current operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Acquisition and could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the Recently Acquired Assets with our business include, among others: • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; • unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • operating risks inherent in the operation of cement plants and ready-mix facilities; • the impact of the Acquisition on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This report includes various forward-looking statements, which are not facts or guarantees of future performance and which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. This report and other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contain or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, plans and objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate, including future prices for our products, audits and legal proceedings to which we are a party and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead represent only our beliefs at the time the statements were made regarding future events, which are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. Any or all of the forward-looking statements made by us may turn out to be materially inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions, changes in facts and circumstances or the effects of known risks and uncertainties. Many of the risks and uncertainties mentioned in this report or other reports filed by us with the SEC, including those discussed in the risk factor section of this report, will be important in determining whether these forward-looking statements prove to be accurate. Consequently, neither our stockholders nor any other person should place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements and should recognize that actual results may differ materially from those that may be anticipated by us. All forward-looking statements made in this report are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved Staff comments. 21 Table of Contents 