ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have affected, or may in the future affect, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations in a material and adverse manner. We are affected by the level of demand in the construction industry, which is currently experiencing a significant downturn. Demand for our products is directly related to the level of activity in the construction industry, which includes residential, commercial and infrastructure construction. In particular, the downturn in residential construction and commercial construction has impacted, and will likely continue to adversely impact, our wallboard business. The residential construction industry is currently in the midst of a significant downturn. A similar downturn has occurred in commercial construction as well. Furthermore, activity in the infrastructure construction business is directly related to the amount of government funding available for such projects, which is very limited in light of the budget constraints being experienced by state and local governments. Any decrease in the amount of government funds available for such projects or any decrease in construction activity in general (including a continued weakness in residential construction or commercial construction) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is seasonal in nature, and this causes our quarterly results to vary significantly. A majority of our business is seasonal with peak revenues and profits occurring primarily in the months of April through November when the weather in our markets is more favorable to construction activity. Quarterly results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Such variations could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We are subject to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions during peak construction periods and other unexpected operational difficulties. Because a majority of our business is seasonal, unfavorable weather conditions and other unexpected operational difficulties during peak construction periods could adversely affect operating income and cash flow and could have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations for the full year. 12 Table of Contents Our customers participate in cyclical industries, which are subject to industry downturns. A majority of our revenues are from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the current economic recession. In addition, since our operations are in a variety of geographic markets, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each such geographic market. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations, including the current and any future downturns in the residential or commercial construction industries, generally have an adverse effect on demand for our products. Furthermore, additions to the production capacity of industry participants, particularly in the gypsum wallboard industry, have created an imbalance between supply and demand, which could continue to adversely affect the prices at which we sell our products and adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. In general, any further downturns in the industries to which we sell our products or any further increases in capacity in the gypsum wallboard, paperboard and cement industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and our customers are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which can be costly and burdensome. Our operations and those of our customers are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such matters as land usage, street and highway usage, noise level and health and safety and environmental matters. In many instances, various certificates, permits or licenses are required in order for us or our customers to conduct business or for construction and related operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements or that demand for our products will not be adversely affected by regulatory issues affecting our customers. In addition, future developments, such as the discovery of new facts or conditions, new or stricter laws or regulations (including without limitation, climate change legislation described below), or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us or prevent us from opening or expanding plants or facilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Legislative and regulatory measures to address emissions of Greenhouse Gases (“GHG’s) are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. In addition, the EPA has taken steps that would result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. On September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule, which took effect December 29, 2009. This rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. In addition, on December 15, 2009, the EPA published a final rule finding that emissions of GHGs from automobiles endanger public health and welfare and it proposed a rule to limit GHG emissions from automobiles. This rule, according to the EPA, will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for large stationary sources, including cement plants. In a final rule issued on May 13, 2010, known as EPA’s “Tailoring Rule,” any modification or expansion of our existing plants (or construction of a new plant) after January 1, 2011 that triggers New Source Review (“NSR”) requirements for non-GHG emissions will also trigger NSR for GHG if our proposed GHG emissions exceed 75,000 tons per year. This would require the permitting of, and evaluation of potential controls for, GHG emissions. Effective July 1, 2011, any modification or expansion of our existing plants that results in an increase of our GHG emissions in excess of 75,000 tons per year, or construction of a new plant with the potential to emit 100,000 tons per year, will require NSR permitting and the implementation “best available control technology” for GHG emissions. These limitations on emissions of GHGs from our equipment or operations could require us to incur costs to reduce such emissions and could ultimately affect our operations and our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. The potential consequences of GHG emission reduction measures for our operations are potentially significant because (1) the cement manufacturing process requires the combustion of large amounts of fuel, (2) in our cement manufacturing process, the production of carbon dioxide is a byproduct of the calcination process, whereby carbon dioxide is removed from calcium carbonate to produce calcium oxide, and (3) our gypsum 13 Table of Contents wallboard manufacturing process combusts a significant amount of fossil fuel, especially natural gas. At this time, it is not possible to accurately estimate how laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions would impact our business. Any imposition of raw materials or production limitations, fuel-use or carbon taxes, or emission limitations or reductions could have a significant impact on the cement manufacturing industry and the gypsum wallboard manufacturing industry and a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. On, September 9, 2010, the EPA finalized the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAP, for Portland cement plants (“PC MACT”). The PC MACT will require a significant reduction in emissions of certain hazardous air pollutants from Portland cement kilns. The PC MACT sets limits on mercury emissions from existing Portland cement kilns and increases the stringency of emission limits for new kilns. The PC MACT also sets emission limits for total hydrocarbons, particulate matter and sulfur dioxide from cement kilns of all sizes and would reduce hydrochloric acid emissions from kilns that are large emitters. The PC MACT takes full effect in 2013, although there is an opportunity for a one-year delay under certain circumstances. This rule will materially increase capital costs and costs of production for the Company and the industry as a whole. In 2010 the EPA released proposed regulations to address the storage and disposal of coal combustion products, which include fly ash and flue gas desulfurization gypsum (“synthetic gypsum”). We use synthetic gypsum in wallboard manufactured at our Georgetown, SC plant. In its release, the EPA is proposing two alternative regulations. Under one proposal, the EPA would characterize coal combustion products destined for disposal as a special waste under Subtitle C of the RCRA, which is the Subtitle that regulates hazardous wastes. However, under this proposal, beneficial encapsulated use of coal combustion products, including synthetic gypsum, would continue to be exempt under the Bevill Amendment and not warrant regulation. Under the other proposal, the EPA would continue to regulate coal combustion products under Subtitle D of RCRA, which regulates solid wastes that are not hazardous wastes. The EPA has emphasized that it does not wish to discourage the beneficial reuse of coal combustion products under either of its two proposals. It is not possible to accurately predict the regulations that will be ultimately adopted. However, it is possible that EPA’s rulemaking could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, depending on how any such regulation affects our costs or the demand for our products utilizing synthetic gypsum. Our products are commodities, which are subject to significant changes in supply and demand and price fluctuations. The products sold by us are commodities and competition among manufacturers is based largely on price. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond our control. Increases in the industry’s production capacity for products such as gypsum wallboard or cement or increases in cement imports tend to create an oversupply of such products and negatively impact product prices. There can be no assurance that prices for products sold by us will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could affect access to credit. Difficult economic conditions can cause a contraction in the availability, and increase the cost, of credit in the marketplace. This could potentially reduce the sources of liquidity for the Company and our customers. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect demand for our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is significantly affected by the movement of interest rates. Interest rates have a direct impact on the level of residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity. Higher interest rates could result in decreased demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, increases in interest rates could result in higher interest expense related to borrowings under our credit facilities. 14 Table of Contents Our results of operations are subject to significant changes in the cost and availability of fuel, energy and other raw materials. Major cost components in each of our businesses are the costs of fuel, energy and raw materials. Significant increases in the costs of fuel, energy or raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability could materially and adversely affect our sales and operating profits. Prices for fuel, energy or raw materials used in connection with our businesses could change significantly in a short period of time for reasons outside our control. Prices for fuel and electrical power, which are significant components of the costs associated with our gypsum wallboard and cement businesses, have fluctuated significantly in recent years and are expected to increase in the future. In the event of large or rapid increases in prices, we may not be able to pass the increases through to our customers in full, which would reduce our operating margin. We may become subject to significant clean-up, remediation and other liabilities under applicable environmental laws. Our operations are subject to state, federal and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose liability for cleanup or remediation of environmental pollution and hazardous waste arising from past acts. These laws and regulations also require pollution control and prevention, site restoration and operating permits and/or approvals to conduct certain of our operations. Certain of our operations may from time-to-time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Additionally, any future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would likely have a negative impact on our business or results of operations, either through the imposition of raw material or production limitations, fuel-use or carbon taxes or emission limitations or reductions. We are unable to estimate accurately the impact on our business or results of operations of any such law or regulation at this time. Risk of environmental liability (including the incurrence of fines, penalties or other sanctions or litigation liability) is inherent in the operation of our businesses. As a result, it is possible that environmental liabilities and compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations in the future. See “Item 1. Business – Industry Segment Information – Environmental Matters” for more information on our regulatory and environmental matters. Significant changes in the cost and availability of transportation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, such as coal or coke, are transported to our facilities by truck or rail. In addition, the transportation costs associated with the delivery of our wallboard products are a significant portion of the variable cost of our gypsum wallboard segment. Significant increases in the cost of fuel or energy can result in material increases in the cost of transportation which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. In addition, reductions in the availability of certain modes of transportation such as rail or trucking could limit our ability to deliver product and therefore materially and adversely affect our operating profits. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants and require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests, which limit our flexibility and could give rise to a default if we are unable to remain in compliance. Our amended and restated credit agreement and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes contain, among other things, covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities, including our ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Sell assets or make other fundamental changes; • Engage in mergers and acquisitions; • Pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • Make investments, loans, advances or guarantees; • Encumber the assets of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries; • Enter into transactions with our affiliates. 15 Table of Contents In addition, these agreements require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Events beyond our control, including the severity and duration of the current industry downturn and changes in general business and economic conditions, may impair our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants or failure to maintain the required ratios and meet the required tests may result in an event of default under those agreements. This may allow the lenders under those agreements to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, terminate any commitments to extend further credit to us and pursue other remedies available to them under the applicable agreements. If this occurs, our indebtedness may be accelerated and we may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, or repay the accelerated indebtedness. Our production facilities may experience unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance. Interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment. Such equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, violent weather conditions or unexpected operational difficulties. We also have periodic scheduled shut-downs to perform maintenance on our facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Pension assets and costs associated with employee benefit plans generally are affected by economic and market conditions. The current economic environment could negatively impact the fair value of pension assets, which could increase future funding requirements to our pension trusts. More generally, our costs are significantly affected by expenses related to our employee benefit plans. The recognition of costs and liabilities associated with these plans for financial reporting purposes is affected by assumptions made by management and used by actuaries engaged by us to calculate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and the annual expense recognized for these plans. Economic and market factors and conditions could affect any of these assumptions and may affect our estimated and actual employee benefit plan costs and our results of operations. Inflation and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business and demand for our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is significantly affected by the movement of interest rates. Interest rates have a direct impact on the level of residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity by impacting the cost of borrowed funds to builders. Higher interest rates could result in decreased demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, increases in interest rates could result in higher interest expense related to borrowings under our credit facilities. Inflation can result in higher interest rates. With inflation, the costs of capital increase, and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline. Current or future efforts by the government to stimulate the economy may increase the risk of significant inflation and its direct and indirect adverse impact on our business and results of operations. This report includes various forward-looking statements, which are not facts or guarantees of future performance and which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. This report and other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contain or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” 16 Table of Contents “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, plans and objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate, including future prices for our products, audits and legal proceedings to which we are a party and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead represent only our beliefs at the time the statements were made regarding future events, which are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. Any or all of the forward-looking statements made by us may turn out to be materially inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions, changes in facts and circumstances or the effects of known risks and uncertainties. Many of the risks and uncertainties mentioned in this report or other reports filed by us with the SEC, including those discussed in the risk factor section of this report, will be important in determining whether these forward-looking statements prove to be accurate. Consequently, neither our stockholders nor any other person should place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements and should recognize that actual results may differ materially from those that may be anticipated by us. All forward-looking statements made in this report are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved Staff comments. 