ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company’s actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: • Levels of construction spending. Demand for the Company’s products is directly related to the level of activity in the construction industry, which includes residential, commercial and infrastructure construction. Furthermore, activity in the infrastructure construction business is directly related to the amount of government funding available for such projects. Any decrease in the amount of government funds available for such projects or any decrease in construction activity in general, including continued slow down of home building activity, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. • Interest rates. The Company’s business is significantly affected by the movement of interest rates. Interest rates have a direct impact on the level of residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity put in place. Higher interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, increases in interest rates could result in higher interest expense related to the Company’s borrowings under its credit facilities. • Price fluctuations and supply/demand for our products. The products sold by the Company are commodities and competition among manufacturers is based largely on price. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond our control. Increases in the production capacity for products such as gypsum wallboard may create an oversupply of such products and negatively impact product prices. There can be no assurance that prices for products sold by the Company will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. • Significant changes in the cost of, and the availability of, fuel, energy and other raw materials. Significant increases in the cost of fuel, energy or raw materials used in connection with our businesses or substantial decreases in their availability could materially and adversely affect our sales and operating profits. Major cost components in each of our businesses are the cost of fuel, energy and raw materials. Prices for fuel, energy or raw materials used in connection with our businesses could change significantly in a short period of time for reasons outside our control. In the event of large or rapid increases in prices, we may not be able to pass the increases through to our customers in full, which would reduce our operating margin. • The seasonal nature of the Company’s business. A majority of our business is seasonal with peak revenues and profits occurring primarily in the months of April through November. Quarterly results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Such variations could have a negative impact on the price of the Company’s common stock. • National and regional economic conditions. A majority of our revenues are from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions. In addition, since operations occur in a variety of geographic markets, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each such geographic market. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations, including any downturns in the construction industry or increases in capacity in the gypsum wallboard, paperboard and cement industries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents • Unfavorable weather conditions during peak construction periods and other unexpected operational difficulties. Because a majority of our business is seasonal, bad weather conditions and other unexpected operational difficulties during peak periods could adversely affect operating income and cash flow and could have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations for the full year. • Competition from new or existing competitors or the ability to successfully penetrate new markets. The construction products industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to keep our products competitively priced, our sales could be reduced materially. Also, we may experience increased competition from companies offering products based on new processes that are more efficient or result in improvements in product performance, which could put us at a disadvantage and cause us to lose customers and sales volume. Our failure to continue to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to state, federal and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose liability for cleanup or remediation of environmental pollution and hazardous waste arising from past acts; and require pollution control and prevention, site restoration and operating permits and/or approvals to conduct certain of its operations. Certain of our operations may from time-to-time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Risk of environmental liability is inherent in the operation of our businesses. As a result, it is possible that environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future. • Compliance with governmental regulations. Our operations and our customers are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to land usage, street and highway usage, noise level and health and safety and environmental matters. In many instances, various permits are required for construction and related operations. Although management believes that we are in compliance in all material respects with regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements or that demand for its products will be affected by regulatory issues affecting its customers. • Events that may disrupt the U.S. or world economy. Future terrorist attacks, the ensuing U.S. military and other responsive actions, could have a significant adverse effect on the general economic, market and political conditions, which in turn could have material adverse effect on the Company’s business. • Significant changes in the cost and availability of transportation. Some of the raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, such as coal or coke, are transported to our facilities by truck or rail. In addition, the transportation costs associated with the delivery of our wallboard products are a significant portion of the variable cost of the wallboard division. Significant increases in the cost of fuel or energy can result in material increases in the cost of transportation which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. In addition, reductions in the availability of certain modes of transportation such as rail or trucking could limit our ability to deliver product and therefore materially and adversely affect our operating profits. In general, the Company is subject to the risks and uncertainties of the construction industry and of doing business in the U.S. The forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 