ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have affected, or may in the future affect, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations in a material and adverse manner. We are affected by the level of demand in the construction industry, which is currently experiencing a significant downturn in the residential construction sector. Demand for our products is directly related to the level of activity in the construction industry, which includes residential, commercial and infrastructure construction. In particular, the downturn in residential construction has, and will likely continue to, adversely impact our wallboard business. This downturn became more pronounced in mid-2007, as a result of, among other things, a decrease in liquidity and a tightening of loan standards in the residential mortgage financing markets. Furthermore, activity in the infrastructure construction business is directly related to the amount of government funding available for such projects. Any decrease in the amount of government funds available for such projects or any decrease in construction activity in general (including a continued decrease in residential construction or a weakening of commercial production) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could adversely affect demand for our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is significantly affected by the movement of interest rates. Interest rates have a direct impact on the level of residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity. Higher interest rates could result in decreased demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, increases in interest rates could result in higher interest expense related to borrowings under our credit facilities. Our customers participate in cyclical industries, which are subject to industry downturns. A majority of our revenues are from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions. In addition, since operations occur in a variety of geographic markets, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each such geographic market. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations, including any downturns in the residential or commercial construction industries, have the potential of adversely affecting demand for our products. Furthermore, additions to the production capacity of industry participants, particularly in the gypsum wallboard industry, have the potential of creating an imbalance between supply and demand, which could adversely affect the prices at which we sell our products. In general, any further downturns in the industries to which we sell our products or any further increases in capacity in the gypsum wallboard, paperboard and cement industries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and our customers are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which can be costly and burdensome. Our operations and our customers are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such matters as land usage, street and highway usage, noise level and health and safety and environmental matters. In many instances, various certificates, permits or licenses are required in order to conduct our business or for construction and related operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements or that demand for our products will not be adversely affected by regulatory issues affecting our customers. In addition, future developments, such as the discovery of new facts or conditions, stricter laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us or prevent us from opening or expanding plants or facilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our products are commodities, which are subject to significant changes in supply and demand and price fluctuations. The products sold by us are commodities and competition among manufacturers is based largely on price. The prices for cement are currently at levels higher than those experienced in recent years, while prices for wallboard have declined significantly as a result primarily of the decline in residential construction. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond our control. Increases in the production capacity for products such as gypsum wallboard or cement may create an oversupply of such products and negatively impact product prices. There can be no assurance that prices for products sold by us will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business is seasonal in nature, and this causes our quarterly results to vary significantly. A majority of our business is seasonal with peak revenues and profits occurring primarily in the months of April through November when the weather in our markets is more favorable to construction activity. Quarterly results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Such variations could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We are subject to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions during peak construction periods and other unexpected operational difficulties. Because a majority of our business is seasonal, unfavorable weather conditions and other unexpected operational difficulties during peak periods could adversely affect operating income and cash flow and could have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations for the full year. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants and require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests, which limit our flexibility and could give rise to a default if we are unable to remain in compliance. Our amended and restated credit agreement and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes contain, among other things, covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities, including our ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Sell assets or make other fundamental changes; • Engage in mergers and acquisitions; • Pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • Make investments, loans, advances or guarantees; • Encumber the assets of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries; • Enter into transactions with our affiliates. In addition, these agreements require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants or failure to maintain the required ratios and meet the required tests may result in an event of default under those agreements. This may allow the lenders under those agreements to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, terminate any commitments to extend further credit to us and pursue other remedies available to them under the applicable agreements. If this occurs, our indebtedness may be accelerated and we may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, or repay the accelerated indebtedness. Our results of operations are subject to significant changes in the cost and availability of fuel, energy and other raw materials. Significant increases in the cost of fuel, energy or raw materials used in connection with our businesses or substantial decreases in their availability could materially and adversely affect our sales and operating profits. Major cost components in each of our businesses are the cost of fuel, energy and raw materials. Prices for fuel, energy or raw materials used in connection with our businesses could change significantly in a short period of time for reasons outside our control. Prices for natural gas and electrical power, which are significant components of the costs associated with our gypsum wallboard and cement businesses, have increased significantly in recent years and are expected to increase in the future. In the event of large or rapid increases in prices, we may not be able to pass the increases through to our customers in full, which would reduce our operating margin. 15 Table of Contents Our production facilities may experience unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance. Interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment. Such equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, violent weather conditions or unexpected operational difficulties. We also have periodic scheduled shut-downs to perform maintenance on our facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive market, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The construction products industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to keep our products competitively priced, our sales could be reduced materially. Also, we may experience increased competition from companies offering products based on new processes that are more efficient or result in improvements in product performance, which could put us at a disadvantage and cause us to lose customers and sales volume. Our failure to continue to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to significant clean-up, remediation and other liabilities under applicable environmental laws. Our operations are subject to state, federal and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose liability for cleanup or remediation of environmental pollution and hazardous waste arising from past acts; and require pollution control and prevention, site restoration and operating permits and/or approvals to conduct certain of our operations. Certain of our operations may from time-to-time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Additionally, any future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would likely have a negative impact on our business or results of operations, either through the imposition of raw material or production limitations, fuel-use or carbon taxes or emission limitations or reductions—although we are unable to accurately estimate the impact on our business or results of operations of any such law or regulation at this time. Risk of environmental liability (including the incurrence of fines, penalties or other sanctions or litigation liability) is inherent in the operation of our businesses. As a result, it is possible that environmental liabilities and compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations in the future. Significant changes in the cost and availability of transportation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, such as coal or coke, are transported to our facilities by truck or rail. In addition, the transportation costs associated with the delivery of our wallboard products are a significant portion of the variable cost of our gypsum wallboard segment. Significant increases in the cost of fuel or energy can result in material increases in the cost of transportation which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. In addition, reductions in the availability of certain modes of transportation such as rail or trucking could limit our ability to deliver product and therefore materially and adversely affect our operating profits. 16 Table of Contents Events that may disrupt the U.S. or world economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks, and the ensuing U.S. military and other responsive actions, could have a significant adverse effect on the general economic, market and political conditions, which in turn could have material adverse effect on our business. In general, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the construction industry and of doing business in the U.S. The forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See “Forward Looking Statements” in Item 7. below. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved Staff comments. 