Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or our Senior Secured Notes is extremely risky. The following risks identify some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The trading price of our common stock or Senior Secured Notes could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or any part of your investment. No Assurance of Success of Cost Reduction Plan. Due to the significant and continuing operating losses we have experienced since emerging from bankruptcy, we have initiated a cost reduction plan in an effort to better align our operating cost structure with our reduced level of sales. As part of this plan, we expect to reduce our labor costs through minimizing overtime and the use of temporary employees, natural employee attrition, and reductions in our work force. We are also reviewing other potential areas of cost reduction including medical benefits, workers compensation risk management and consolidation of administrative functions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing this plan or reducing our operation costs. 10 Table of Contents No assurance we will be able to achieve profitability. Since our emergence from bankruptcy we have experienced significant operating losses and significant unused excess capacity in our facilities. We must increase our revenues and gross profit and/or reduce operating costs and more effectively utilize our excess capacity in our plants in order to achieve profitability. We cannot be certain that we can achieve profitability in the future or, if we do, that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our second quarter and year ending December 31, 2005 operating results were negatively impacted by the impairment charges on our goodwill and deferred tax asset. In addition, we continued to experience significant operating losses in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and year ended December 31, 2005. These factors and others listed below may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate: • demand for our services and timing of orders for our services; • the loss of one or more of our key customers or a reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of these parties; • our ability to effectively utilize the existing excess capacity in our plants; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and • inconsistent or low levels of trading volume of our common stock. Our operating expenses and inventory levels are based on our expectations of future revenues and our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Additionally, our sales have historically been significantly concentrated towards the end of the quarter. Consequently, if anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur in any quarter when expected, operating expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters may be negatively impacted. Because our operating results have been volatile, you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our stock price has and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Customer Effect from Bankruptcy Filing and Lack of Profitability. During 2001 through 2005, we incurred significant financial losses. These losses combined with defaults incurred on our senior secured revolving credit facility (“Credit Agreement”) and Convertible Notes culminated in us filing a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on October 28, 2003. Our customers engage us to produce complex electronic products. These manufacturing engagements require significant investment and planning by both our customers and us. Our inability to perform for our customers for whatever reason would have a significant impact on their business operations. Although we have subsequently completed our bankruptcy proceedings, we have not succeeded in achieving profitability since emerging from bankruptcy. It is possible that our major customers could suspend or terminate business activity with us due to their concerns about our long term financial stability. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows, and operating results. Supplier Effect from Bankruptcy Filing. We rely on a supply chain comprised of approximately 900 different suppliers. Many of the materials delivered by this supply chain are custom or built to order requiring advanced planning, tooling and significant disengagement costs. Our Plan confirmed by the bankruptcy court provided for the vast majority of the Company’s suppliers to be paid in full for both pre-petition and post-petition shipments. Although our suppliers have been paid in full, it is possible that our bankruptcy filing and subsequent financial condition could result in several adverse actions including restricting our credit limit and the time allowed to pay outstanding obligations, elimination of all credit lines requiring cash in advance or cash on delivery terms, price increases to compensate for perceived risks and choosing not to supply us altogether thereby requiring additional time and investment to source materials. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our Company. 11 Table of Contents Need to Add New Customers. Our future success is greatly dependent upon our ability to increase sales. Our growth strategy includes maintaining and growing sales from current customers as well as adding new customers. Although the Plan has become effective, our ability to attract new customers could be negatively impacted due to their concerns about our long term financial stability and the fact that we have not achieved profitability since emerging from bankruptcy. Our inability to add new customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Customer Concentration and Related Factors Affecting Operating Results. We have certain customers that account for a significant part of total net sales. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 15% (Datascope), 11% (Diebold), and 10% (Hunt Technologies) of total net sales in 2005, respectively, and 13% (Datascope), 12% (Diebold), and 12% (Eastern Research) of total net sales in 2004, respectively. The loss of one or more of these major customers, or a reduction in their level of purchasing, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers have expressed concern over the continuing losses we have incurred since emerging from bankruptcy and the previous bankruptcy filing. It is possible that our major customers could suspend or terminate business activity with us due to these concerns. This action would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, including fixed plant utilization, price competition, ability to keep pace with technological developments, the degree of automation that can be used in an assembly process, efficiencies that can be achieved by managing inventories and fixed assets, the timing of orders from major customers, the timing of capital expenditures in anticipation of increased sales, the substantial start-up costs routinely incurred on new assemblies, customer product delivery requirements and costs and shortages of components and labor. In addition, because of the limited number of our customers and the corresponding concentration of their accounts receivable, the insolvency or other inability or unwillingness of our customers to pay for manufacturing services could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Volume and Timing of Customer Sales May Vary. The volume and timing of purchase orders placed by our customers are affected by a number of factors, including variation in demand for customers’ products, customer attempts to manage inventory, changes in product design or specifications and changes in the customers’ manufacturing strategies. We typically do not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments but instead work with our customers to develop nonbinding forecasts of future requirements. Based on such nonbinding forecasts, we make commitments regarding the level of business that we will seek and accept, the timing of production schedules and the levels and utilization of personnel and other resources. A variety of conditions, both specific to each individual customer and generally affecting each customer’s industry, may cause our customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated. For example, voting equipment accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in 2003, however, we received no sales orders for voting equipment in 2004 or 2005. The timing and level of acceptance of the use of voting equipment as opposed to current methods makes this market segment highly volatile. Generally, our customers may cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty, except for payment for services rendered or products completed and, in certain circumstances, payment for materials purchased and charges associated with such cancellation, reduction or delay. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by our customers, or any inability by our customers to pay for services provided by us or to pay for components and materials purchased by us on our customers’ behalf, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Competition. We face substantial competition. We believe that many of our competitors have international operations and significantly greater manufacturing, financial, marketing, research and development resources, and broader name recognition than we do. We compete in a highly fragmented market composed of a diverse group of EMS providers. We believe that the key competitive factors in our markets are manufacturing flexibility, price, manufacturing quality, advanced manufacturing technology, reliable delivery and financial stability. Additionally, We face the potential risk that our customers may elect to produce their products internally, thereby eliminating our manufacturing opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. 12 Table of Contents Availability of Components and Inventory Management. We rely on third-party suppliers for electronic components. We believe that component shortages would have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customers. At various times, there have been shortages of components in the electronics industry and from time to time the supply of certain electronic components is subject to limited allocations. If shortages of components occur, we expect that we may be forced to delay shipment or to purchase components at higher prices (that we may not be able to be pass on to our customers), which may have a material adverse effect on customer demand, our ability to service customer needs or our gross margins. We believe that any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may bear the risk of fluctuations in materials costs, scrap, and excess inventory, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to forecast our future inventory requirements based upon the anticipated demands of our customers. Inaccuracies in making these forecasts could result in a shortage or excess of materials. In addition, delays, cancellations, or reduction of orders by our customers could result in an excess of materials. A shortage of materials could lengthen production schedules and increase costs. An excess of materials may increase the costs of maintaining inventory and may increase the risk of inventory obsolescence, both of which may increase expenses and decrease profit margins and operating income. Dependence Upon Key Personnel. Reptron is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of its key managerial and technical employees. We have not offered consistent increases in compensation for the last five years. Additionally, we have reduced medical and other benefits during this time frame in an effort to reduce operating expenses. The loss of the services of certain key employees or an inability to attract or retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Migration of Electronic Manufacturing to Asia and Other Low-Cost Regions. A growing number of electronic manufacturing service providers have relocated a portion or all of their manufacturing operations to Asia and other low cost regions. In particular, the growth rate in China has been very strong in recent years to the detriment of other regions of the world. This trend is driven primarily by high availability of low cost labor. In order for us to remain competitive in the markets we serve and have targeted, we may need to expand a portion of our manufacturing capability to low cost regions. If we are unable to develop a low-cost manufacturing presence, our ability to effectively compete may be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will develop a manufacturing presence in low cost regions. Implementation of European RoHS Requirements and Other Environmental Regulations. The European Union and the United Kingdom have developed additional manufacturing requirements aimed at the elimination of lead and other substances from most products sold in this region. These regulations become effective in 2006 and will require the industry to significantly change its manufacturing process and materials used in producing electronic products. These regulations will require us to make substantial additional capital investments in manufacturing equipment and introduce additional costs to the manufacturing and materials procurement process. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these new requirements in a timely fashion or that the additional costs associated with compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Expiration of Labor Union Contract. The production workers in the Hibbing, Minnesota facility are organized and represented by a labor union. The current labor agreement expires in September, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a new labor agreement with favorable terms and conditions that will allow for profitable operating results or that work stoppages will be avoided during the negotiation period. Start-up Costs and Inefficiencies Related To New or Transferred Programs Can Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Start-up costs, the management of labor and equipment resources in connection with the establishment of new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate required resources in advance can adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. These factors are particularly prominent in the early stages of the life cycle of new products and new programs. The effects of these start-up costs and 13 Table of Contents inefficiencies can also occur when, and if, we open new facilities. These factors also affect our ability to efficiently use labor and equipment. Due to the improved economy and more successful marketing efforts, we routinely manage a number of new programs and new customer relationships. Consequently, our exposure to these factors has increased. In addition, if any of these new programs or new customer relationships were to be terminated, our operating results could be harmed, particularly in the near term. Governmental Regulation Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements on environmental, waste management and health and safety measures relating to the use, release, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and clean-up of hazardous substances and wastes, as well as practices and procedures applicable to the construction and operation of our plants. In addition, we have registered with the United States Food and Drug Administration as a medical device manufacturer. The FDA and various state agencies inspect our facilities from time to time to determine whether we are in compliance with the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation relating to medical device manufacturing companies, including regulations concerning manufacturing, testing and quality control. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities, suspension of production or curtailment of our operations or sales. Excess Manufacturing Capacity may Adversely Effect Our Operations. Our facilities in Hibbing, Gaylord and Tampa have significant underutilized capacity. The excess capacity means we incur increased fixed costs in our products relative to the revenue we generate which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. If we are unable to improve utilization levels and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural Disasters and Acts of Terrorism Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We have a facility located in Tampa, Florida. Hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding and other natural disasters are common events for Florida which could affect our operations in this geographic region. Any disruption from these or other natural disasters could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. Acts of terrorism or war against the United States of America could reduce consumer confidence and create general economic weakness which could also adversely affect our business. We Have Substantial Indebtedness. We have $30 million of indebtedness in the form of senior secured notes due in 2009. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, changes in our business: and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligation under the Senior Secured Notes. We May Not Be Able to Pay Our Debt and Other Obligations. If our cash balance and cash flows from operations are inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our Senior Secured Notes or our other obligations, we would be in default under the terms thereof. Default under the indenture would permit the holder of the notes to accelerate the maturity of the notes and could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we can not assure you that we would be able to repay amounts due in respect of the notes if payment of the notes were to be accelerated following the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the indenture. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 