ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. It is not reasonably possible to itemize all of the many factors and specific events that could affect the Company and/or the specialty technology logistics industry as a whole. The following risk factors (in addition to other possible factors not listed) could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted, estimated, budgeted or otherwise expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. Our success is highly dependent on our relationships with vendors and on product supply and availability. Our future success is highly dependent on our relationships with vendors. Sales of products from our ten largest vendors accounted for approximately 85% of net sales for fiscal 2006. From time to time, we experience shortages in availability of some 6 products from vendors. Our business is largely dependent upon the terms provided by our vendors. Our vendor agreements generally contain provisions for periodic renewals and for termination by the vendor without cause and typically upon short notice. Some of our vendor agreements require minimum purchase amounts or the maintenance of a representative assortment of the vendor’s full line of products. Such contract provisions could increase our working capital requirements. As is typical in our industry, we receive volume discounts and certain credits for market development from most of our vendors. Any change in the availability of these discounts or credits or our failure to obtain vendor financing on satisfactory terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we believe our vendor relationships are good, there can be no assurance that our vendor relationships will continue as currently in effect. The loss or deterioration of our relationship with a major vendor, the authorization by vendors of additional wholesale distributors, a change in their strategy (such as increasing direct sales), the merging of significant manufacturers or change of control of a major vendor, the deterioration of a major vendor’s financial condition, the insolvency or bankruptcy of a vendor, the inability of a vendor to continue support of its products, or the failure by us to establish good relationships with major new vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully in a highly competitive market could affect our results of operation. Please see the discussion regarding competition in Item 1 “Business” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate quarterly. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate quarterly as a result of fluctuations in demand for our products and services, the introduction of new hardware and software technologies, the introduction of new services by us and our competitors, changes in manufacturers’ prices or price protection policies, changes in freight rates, disruption of warehousing or shipping channels, changes in the level of operating expenses, the timing of major marketing or other service projects, product supply shortages, inventory adjustments, changes in product mix, entry into new product markets, difficulty in maintaining margins, the economic position of our customers, and general competitive and economic conditions. In addition, a substantial portion of our net sales in each quarter results from orders booked in that quarter. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The value of our inventory may be adversely affected by market demands and our ability to manage our inventories. Our business, like that of other wholesale distributors, is subject to the risk that the value of our inventory will be adversely affected by price reductions by manufacturers or by technological changes affecting the usefulness or desirability of our products inventory. Under the terms of most of our agreements and the policy of most manufacturers of specialty technology products, we have some price protection and stock rotation opportunities with respect to slow moving or obsolete inventory items. There can be no assurance, however, that, in every instance, we will be able to comply with all necessary conditions or successfully manage such price protection or stock rotation opportunities, if available. Also, these industry practices are sometimes not included in written agreements and do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value, excess inventory, or product obsolescence. There can be no assurance that manufacturers will continue such practices or that we will be able to successfully manage our existing and future inventories. Significant declines in inventory value in excess of established inventory reserves or dramatic changes in prevailing technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is affected by our ability to manage growth to enter new markets. The growth of our business has required us to hire additional personnel and has increased our working capital requirements. Such growth has resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management and has placed a strain upon our management, operating, financial, and technical resources. We may also in the future require additional equity or debt financing to support our increased working capital needs in connection with any expansion of our business. Such financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Also crucial to our success is our ability to achieve additional economies of scale in order to sustain our operating margins. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain competent personnel and improve our operational status, obtain adequate working capital or achieve the needed economies of scale. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our growth strategy continues to anticipate the entry into new product markets. Expansion of our existing product markets or entry into new product markets could divert the use of our resources and systems, require additional resources that might not be 7 available, result in new or more intense competition, require longer implementation times or greater start-up expenditures than anticipated, or otherwise fail to achieve the desired results in a timely fashion, if at all. Our ability to successfully manage our growth will require continued enhancement of our operational, management and financial resources and controls. Our failure to effectively manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have made and expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions which could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results. We have in the past pursued, and may pursue in the future, from time to time, strategic or opportunistic acquisitions of companies that either complement or expand our existing business. As a result, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, which may be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including expansion into new geographic markets and business areas, the requirement to understand local business practices, the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the possible requirement to upgrade the acquired companies’ management information systems to our standards, the logistical difficulties inherent in expanding into new geographic markets and business areas, potential adverse short-term effects on our operating results and the amortization or impairment of any acquired intangible assets. We are subject to risks relating to our centralized functions. We currently distribute products in North America from a single warehouse located in Memphis, Tennessee (with corresponding arrangements for our Latin American and European markets) and manage most of our operations through a single information system based in Greenville, South Carolina. Repair, replacement, or relocation of such centralized functions could be costly or untimely. Although we have business interruption insurance, an uninsurable loss from electrical or telephone failure, fire or other casualty, or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our use of single warehouses to serve North America, Latin America, and Europe also makes us more vulnerable to dramatic changes in freight rates than a competitor with multiple, geographically dispersed warehouse sites. Losses in excess of insurance coverage, an uninsurable loss, or changes in freight rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our internal information systems and a failure of these systems could disrupt our business. We are highly dependent upon a variety of internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate our business. There can be no assurance that our information systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that we will be able to expand and improve our information systems, that we will be able to convert to new systems efficiently, that we will be able to integrate new programs effectively with our existing programs, or that the information systems of acquired companies will be sufficient to meet our standards or can be successfully converted into an acceptable information system on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any of such problems could have an adverse effect on our business. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management, particularly including, but not limited to, Michael L. Baur, our Chief Executive Officer and President. We have obtained a “key person” insurance policy on the life of Mr. Baur in the amount of $10 million. The loss of services of Mr. Baur or one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third-party shippers for the delivery of a majority of our products. We presently ship the majority of our products from our centralized warehouses by FedEx, United Parcel Service and certain other shipping companies. We also receive the majority of our products by commercial carriers, FedEx, DHL, United Parcel Service and certain other shipping companies. Changes in shipping terms, or the inability of these third-party shippers to perform effectively (whether as a result of mechanical failure, casualty loss, labor stoppage, other disruption, or any other reason), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we can maintain favorable shipping terms or replace such shipping services on a timely or cost-effective basis. 8 We have credit exposure to our reseller customers and negative trends in their businesses could increase our credit risk. As a marketing enhancement, we offer unsecured and secured credit terms for qualified resellers. Historically, we have not experienced losses from write-offs materially in excess of established reserves. As we grow our international and communications businesses, typical customer credit terms tend to be longer, and therefore may create more credit risk. While we evaluate resellers’ qualifications for credit and monitor our extensions of credit, defaults by resellers in timely repayment of these extensions of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with international activities. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, currency devaluations, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of certain technology, dependence on third party freight forwarders and the third party warehouse in Europe, political instability, trade restrictions, tariff changes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of laws (in particular related to items such as duty and taxation), difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer collection periods and the impact of local economic conditions and practices. As we continue to expand our international business, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because we conduct business in countries outside of the United States, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Exchange rate fluctuations may cause our international revenues to fluctuate significantly when reflected in U.S. dollar terms. Our stock price could be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, general market movements, and other events or factors. In addition, in recent years the stock markets in general, and technology-related stocks in particular, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The inability to make accurate forecasts could adversely affect our results of operations. The forecasts of volume and timing of orders are based on many factors and subjective judgments, and we cannot assure that the forecasts are accurate. We make many management decisions on the basis of our forecasts, including the hiring and training of personnel, which represents a significant portion of our overall expenses. Thus, the failure to generate revenue according to expectations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in accounting rules could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. When new accounting rules are issued, we may need to implement changes to our accounting policies. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Exposure to terrorist attacks, military actions, and war could negatively affect our operations. Future terrorist or military actions, in the U.S. or abroad, could result in destruction or seizure of our assets or suspension or disruption of our operations. Additionally, such actions could affect the operations of our suppliers or customers, resulting in loss of access to products, potential losses on supplier programs, loss of business, higher losses on receivables or inventory, and/or other disruptions in our business, which could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, adversely affect our operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 9 