1A. Risk Factors" below and other factors that generally affect the automotive industry. Except as may be required by law, the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Safety Components International, Inc. (including, when the context requires, its consolidated subsidiaries, the "Company" or "Safety Components") was incorporated in Delaware in 1994. It is a leading low-cost, independent supplier of automotive airbag fabric and cushions and technical fabrics with operations in North America, Europe, South Africa and China. The Company entered into joint ventures to produce products in China and South Africa in 2004. Commercial production has not yet commenced in South Africa and has just begun in the fourth quarter of 2005 in China. In 2005, the Company also acquired a minority interest in a U.S.-based partnership which develops new airbag module inflation technology. The Company sells airbag fabric domestically and cushions worldwide to the major airbag module integrators that outsource such products. The Company believes that it is also a leading manufacturer of value-added technical fabrics used in a variety of niche industrial and commercial applications such as fire service apparel, ballistics material, filtration and military fabrics. The ability to interchange airbag and specialty technical fabrics using the same equipment and similar manufacturing processes allows the Company to more effectively utilize its manufacturing assets and lower its per unit overhead costs. Net sales of automotive airbag cushions, automotive fabrics and technical fabrics products (the "automotive airbag and fabrics products" business) were approximately $220.1 million, $247.9 million and $183.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 and the nine month period from March 30, 2003 to December 31, 2003, respectively. Subsequent to the 2003 Change of Control (described below), the Company changed its fiscal year to a calendar year end to coincide with the fiscal year end of Zapata Corporation ("Zapata"), the Company's former majority owner. The Company's operations were previously based on a fifty-two or fifty-three week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to March 31. As such, the period from March 30, 2003 to December 31, 2003 consists of nine months of operations. The years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 each consisted of twelve months of operations. 2005 Change of Control On September 23, 2005, Zapata entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with WLR Recovery Fund III, L.P. ("WLR III") to sell to WLR III all of its 4,162,394 shares of the Company's common stock. On September 26, 2005, Zapata, WLR III and WLR Recovery Fund II, L.P. ("WLR II" and collectively with WLR III, referred to as the "WLR Recovery Funds") entered into Amendment No. 1 and Joinder Agreement which joined WLR II as a party to the Stock Purchase Agreement. The Amendment No. 1 provided that WLR II and WLR III would purchase 241,419 and 3,920,975 shares of the Company's common stock, respectively. The purchase price of $12.30 per share, or $51,197,446 in the aggregate, was paid in immediately available funds at the closing of the transaction on December 2, 2005. The WLR Recovery Funds are affiliates of Mr. Wilber L. Ross, Jr., and W. L. Ross and Co. LLC. As provided in the Stock Purchase Agreement and after the closing of the transaction, the Company's Board of Directors elected three WLR Recovery Funds' nominees to the Company's board of directors and Zapata then caused its own representatives to resign as directors of the Company. The WLR Recovery Funds' nominees to the Company's board of directors are Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Michael J. Gibbons and David H. Storper. As a result of the foregoing transactions, a change of control of the Company occurred (the "2005 Change of Control"). Upon closing of the stock purchase transaction, and in lieu of any special change of control bonus that was or might have been payable pursuant to employment agreements between the Company and each of John Corey, then President and Chief Executive Officer, and Brian Menezes, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Company paid a bonus of $994,000 to Mr. Corey and $406,000 to Mr. Menezes. In addition, upon closing of the stock purchase transaction, Zapata made a capital contribution to the Company in the aggregate amount of $1.0 million for the purpose of the Company paying bonuses to the Company's executive officers and other key employees for their efforts in connection with the attempts to sell the Company and to provide 3 management with an appropriate incentive to remain with the Company during the pendency of the stock purchase transaction. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors determined that this $1.0 million aggregate amount be distributed as follows: $400,000 to John C. Corey, $214,500 to Brian P. Menezes, $75,000 to Stephen B. Duerk, Vice President and president of the Company's North American Automotive Group, and $50,000 to Vick Crowley, Treasurer, with the remainder of $260,500 distributed among other key employees of the Company as recommended by the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. These bonus amounts payable to Messrs. Corey and Menezes were in addition to the amounts paid to them that are described in the immediately preceding paragraph. In addition, the Company recognized expenses of approximately $600,000 related to this stock purchase transaction. All of the bonus amounts and purchasing expenses have been included in the Company's income statement in expenses associated with changes of control. 2003 Change of Control On September 29, 2003, Zapata filed a Schedule 13D with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") indicating that as of September 18, 2003 it had acquired 2,663,905 shares of the Company's common stock which then constituted approximately 53.7% of the issued and outstanding shares of such common stock. As a result, a change of control of the Company (the "2003 Change of Control") occurred. On October 6, 2003, Zapata filed an amendment to its Schedule 13D with the SEC, indicating that it had acquired an additional 1,498,489 shares of the Company's common stock which, together with the shares previously acquired, then constituted approximately 83.9% of the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company. The 2003 Change of Control triggered certain provisions of the Company's Stock Option Plan, including immediate vesting of all options and an automatic change in the exercise price of a portion of the options to $0.01 per share. This change in exercise price constituted a modification of the Stock Option Plan and the Company was required to recognize a one-time, non-recurring compensation cost of $1.4 million for the modified options for 126,900 shares, for the nine months ended December 31, 2003. Additionally, in lieu of re-pricing their Class A stock options, the employment agreements of certain key executives included a provision for a bonus payable in the event of a change of control. The aggregate bonus paid under these provisions in connection with the 2003 Change of Control was $1.4 million and was also recognized as an expense in 2003. Following the 2003 Change of Control, the Company's Audit Committee and Board of Directors determined that it was in the Company's best interest to change the Company's fiscal year end from the last Saturday in the month of March to a calendar-based year ending December 31 to coincide with Zapata's year end. This change was effective as of the quarter ended December 31, 2003. At a meeting on January 26, 2004, the Company's Board of Directors appointed two designees of Zapata, Avram Glazer and Leonard DiSalvo, as members of the Company's Board of Directors. As a result of the above transactions, the consolidated federal income tax group of the Company that existed prior to these transactions terminated and Safety Components and its subsidiaries became members of the consolidated federal income tax group of Zapata. In the first quarter of 2004, Zapata and the Company entered into a Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement to define their respective rights and obligations relating to federal, state and other taxes for taxable periods attributable to the filing of consolidated or combined income tax returns as part of the Zapata consolidated federal income tax group. Due to exercises of options to purchase common stock of the Company, on or about March 31, 2004, the number of shares of common stock outstanding increased and, as a result, Zapata's ownership was reduced to less than 80%. As a result of Zapata's ownership of the company's outstanding common stock falling below 80%, Zapata could not consolidate the Company into Zapata's consolidated income tax returns for periods subsequent to the first quarter of 2004. Under The Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement, the Company was consolidated into Zapata's tax filing group for the fourth calendar quarter of 2003 and the first calendar quarter of 2004. On January 4, 2005, the Company received notification from the Internal Revenue Service that its plan to return to the taxpayer status consistent to the periods prior to the 2003 Change of Control had been approved. 4 The Woodville Acquisition On November 2, 2001, the Company's U.K. subsidiary, Automotive Safety Components International Limited ("ASCIL"), acquired the airbag business (operated under the name of Woodville Airbag Engineering and hereafter referred to as "Woodville") of TISPP UK Limited, a subsidiary of Smiths Group PLC, to expand its European operations. This acquisition contributed approximately $7.8 million in sales and had a negative impact of approximately $1.1 million on cost of sales, including depreciation and a negative impact of approximately $1.5 million on operating income for the period from November 3, 2001 to March 30, 2002. The management and business activities of the Woodville operation were consolidated into the ASCIL operation during the quarter ended June 28, 2003. The manufacturing process and production assets have been transferred to other European operations of the Company primarily in lower labor cost facilities and countries. Discontinuation of Munitions and Metal Components Business On December 23, 2002, the Company completed the disposal of all operations that it had classified as "discontinued operations". The Company's discontinued operations supplied projectiles and other metal components for medium caliber training and tactical ammunition used by the United States Armed Forces. The metal components manufactured by the Company were shipped to a loading facility, operated either by the United States government or a prime defense contractor, which loaded the explosives, assembled the rounds and packaged the ammunition for use. Additionally, the Company's discontinued operations manufactured small quantities of metal airbag module components for the automotive airbag industry. The 2001 Restructuring On April 10, 2000 (the "Petition Date"), the Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries (collectively, the "Safety Filing Group"), filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code ("Chapter 11") with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the "Bankruptcy Court"). On October 11, 2000 (the "Emergence Date"), the Safety Filing Group emerged from Chapter 11 pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan") confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Pursuant to the Plan, upon emergence, all of the Company's 10-1/8% Senior Notes due 2007 (the "Notes") (an aggregate of approximately $96.8 million, including accrued interest to the Petition Date) were converted into 4,840,774 shares of the Company's post-bankruptcy common stock, and the pre-bankruptcy common stock, excluding stock held by Robert A. Zummo (former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company), was converted into 159,226 shares of the Company's post-bankruptcy common stock, including 39,619 shares of treasury stock, and warrants to acquire an additional 681,818 shares of such common stock (these warrants expired as of April 10, 2003). Immediately upon emergence, the Company had 5,000,000 shares of common stock issued and 4,960,381 shares outstanding and, other than shares underlying the warrants, no shares of common stock were reserved for issuance in respect of claims and interests filed and allowed under the Plan. In addition, the Safety Filing Group's trade suppliers and other creditors were paid in full, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, within 90 days of the Emergence Date. Automotive Airbag and Fabrics Products Structure of the Automotive Airbag Industry Airbag systems consist of various airbag modules and an electronic control module, which are currently integrated by automakers into their respective vehicles. Airbag modules generally consist of inflators, cushions, housing and possibly trim covers and are assembled by module integrators, most of whom produce a majority of the components required for a complete module. As the industry has evolved, module integrators have outsourced varying portions of non-proprietary components, such as cushions, to those companies specializing in the production of individual components. The Company believes that its module integrator customers will continue to outsource a portion of their cushion requirements as they focus on the development of proprietary technologies. A majority of the module integrators purchase fabric from airbag fabric producers such as the Company. Characteristic of the industry, the Company supplies airbag cushions to module integrators, most of which also produce a portion of their cushion requirements internally. As a result, the Company may compete with those of its 5 customers that supply their own internal cushion requirements. However, in most cases the Company's customers do not produce the same cushions for the same car/truck models for which the Company produces cushions. Another characteristic of the airbag industry is the qualification process for new suppliers. New suppliers that wish to produce and supply airbag cushions or airbag fabric must undergo a rigorous qualification process, which can take in excess of a year. The Company believes that the existence of this qualification process can result in significant re-qualification costs for module integrators which are required to assist any new supplier in meeting automakers' requirements. Additionally, the Company believes module integrators are, like their automaker customers, trying to reduce overall industry costs by limiting the number of suppliers. Establishment of Joint Ventures On November 30, 2004, the Company announced that it had signed an agreement to form a joint venture with KAP Textile Holdings SA Ltd. ("Gelvenor") which, through its Gelvenor textiles divisions, produces high technology industrial, technical and specialized fabrics in South Africa (the "South Africa Joint Venture"). The Company anticipates that the South Africa Joint Venture, which has not yet commenced commercial production, will produce automotive airbag cushions in South Africa utilizing the fabrics produced by Gelvenor. The initial production is intended to satisfy the South African domestic market, with additional production capacity available to support the Company's growing worldwide customer base by the end of 2006. The Company owns 75% of the entity formed to conduct the operations of the South Africa Joint Venture. On January 4, 2005, the Company announced it had signed an agreement to form a joint venture with Kingsway International Limited, an entity associated with Huamao (Xiamen) Technical Textile Co., Ltd. ("Huamao") which manufactures airbag, industrial and technical fabrics, in China (the "China Joint Venture"). The Company anticipates that the China Joint Venture, which commenced commercial production in the fourth quarter of 2005, will produce automotive airbag cushions in China utilizing fabrics produced by Huamao. Pursuant to a technology transfer and joint venture agreement, the Company will provide technical assistance to its partner in the development of airbag fabrics. Production is intended to satisfy the Chinese domestic market. The Company owns 65% of the entity formed to conduct the operations of the China Joint Venture. The Company has certain financial commitments related to these joint ventures as described in "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations" below. NxGen Partnership On September 1, 2005 the Company exercised an option to acquire 49% of the ownership interests of NxGen Technologies, LLC ("NxGen"), which is in the business of designing airbags, airbag systems and inflator units. The Company exercised this option in connection with NxGen's entry into a License and Consulting Agreement with a major automotive supplier ("Supplier") pursuant to which NxGen granted Supplier an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to certain of NxGen's patents and patent know-how. The Company waived a right-of-first-refusal with respect to the license. Supplier paid NxGen an initial license fee and will owe it two additional payments, which will be treated as prepaid royalties for subsequent sales, if and when validation and sales targets are met. If sales exceed the volume corresponding to the prepaid royalties, Supplier will pay NxGen an additional royalty for each airbag system sold using the licensed patents and know-how. The Company recognized approximately $754,000 (net of income taxes of $448,000) in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliate in connection with the exercise of the option and the allocation of the Company's proportionate share of NxGen's income from the receipt of the initial license fee from Supplier. As a result of the above and also the Company's receipt of a distribution from NxGen, the Company recorded an asset of approximately $237,000 (which represents the Company's ownership interest in this affiliate's equity) in the Company's balance sheet at December 31, 2005 in investment in unconsolidated affiliate. The Company will participate in NxGen's subsequent profits and losses pro rata in accordance with its equity ownership. Products The Company's automotive products include passenger, driver and side impact airbag cushions, side protection curtains, knee protection cushions and related parts and accessory components manufactured for installation in approximately 200 car and truck models sold worldwide and airbag fabric for sale to airbag manufacturers. Sales of 6 airbag related products (inclusive of sales of airbag fabric) accounted for approximately 88.3% and 88.5% of the Company's consolidated net sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively and approximately 89.8% of the Company's consolidated net sales in the nine month period from March 30, 2003 to December 31, 2003. The Company also manufactures a wide array of specialty technical fabrics for consumer and industrial uses. These fabrics include, but are not limited to: (i) protective apparel worn by firefighters; (ii) filtration fabrics used in the aluminum, coal, steel, cement, clay and brewing industries; (iii) woven fabrics for use by manufacturers of coated products; (iv) specialty fabrics used in fuel cells, bomb and cargo chutes, oil containment booms and gas diaphragms, among other uses; and (v) release liners used in tire manufacturing. Sales of technical related products accounted for approximately 11.7% and 11.5% of the Company's consolidated net sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively and approximately 10.2% of the Company's consolidated net sales in the nine month period from March 30, 2003. The market for the Company's technical related products is highly segmented by product line. Marketing and sales of the Company's technical related products is conducted by the Company's marketing and sales staff based in Greenville, South Carolina. Manufacturing of these products occurs at the South Carolina facility, using the same equipment and manufacturing processes that the Company uses to produce airbag fabric, enabling the Company to take advantage of demand requirements for the various products by leveraging its expenditures on production retooling costs. By manufacturing technical products using the same machines that weave airbag fabric, the Company is able to more effectively utilize capacity at its South Carolina plant and lower per unit overhead costs. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional financial information by product type, which information is incorporated herein by reference Customers The Company sells its airbag cushions to airbag module integrators globally for inclusion in specified model cars, generally pursuant to contract requirements. Certain of these customers also manufacture airbag cushions to be used in their production of airbag modules. The Company markets and sells airbag cushions through its direct marketing and sales forces based in South Carolina, California, Mexico, Germany and China. The Company sells its airbag fabric in North America either directly to a module integrator or to a fabricator (such as the Company's own operations), which sells a sewn airbag to the module integrator. In some cases, particularly when the cushion requires lower air permeability to facilitate more rapid or prolonged inflation, and to eliminate particulate burn-through caused by hot inflators, the fabric must be coated before fabrication into airbags. For such requirements, the Company sells fabric to coating companies, which then resell the coated fabric to either an airbag cushion fabricator (including the Company) or module integrator. Sales are either made against purchase orders, pursuant to releases on open purchase orders, or pursuant to short-term supply contracts generally having durations of up to twelve months. The Company has contractual relationships with several large, global module integrators, the most significant being Autoliv, Key Safety Systems, Takata and TRW, listed in alphabetical order. The Company supplies airbag cushions and/or airbag fabric to each of these customers based upon releases from formal purchase orders, which typically cover periods of up to twelve months and are subject to periodic negotiation with respect to price and quantity. Sales to these four customers together approximate 60-68% of total sales for the past three fiscal periods. The loss of any of its largest customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company's customers, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 7 Suppliers The Company's principal customers generally require that they approve all suppliers of major airbag components or airbag fabric raw materials, as the case may be. These suppliers are approved after undergoing a rigorous qualification process on their products and manufacturing capabilities. In many cases, only one approved source of supply exists for certain airbag components. In the event that a sole source supplier experiences prolonged delays in product shipments or no longer qualifies as a supplier, the Company would work together with its customers to identify another qualified source of supply. Although alternative sources of supply generally exist, a prolonged delay in securing an alternative supply or in obtaining the approval by the Company's customers of any such alternative sources of supply could adversely affect the Company's operating results. The raw materials for the Company's fabric operations largely consist of synthetic yarns provided by Invista, Pharr Yarns, DuPont, Polymide High Performance ("PHP"), and Unifi, among others. The primary yarns include nylon, polyester and Nomex. Invista and PHP are the leading suppliers of airbag fabric yarn to both the market and the Company. Invista supplies a majority of the nylon yarn used in the Company's airbag fabric operations pursuant to purchase orders or releases on open purchase orders. The loss of Invista as a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, in connection with its European operations, the Company has entered into an agreement with a German industrial sewing company and its Romanian subsidiary under which the Romanian subsidiary serves as a manufacturing subcontractor for airbag cushions. Under the terms of this agreement, the Company provides and retains control of the manufacturing equipment, processes and production materials and the subcontractor provides sewing services for a price per standard minute of acceptable units basis. Significant problems with, or the loss of, any key supplier or subcontractor (see also "Risks Resulting from Foreign Operations" below for further information) may adversely affect the Company's operating results and ability to meet customer contracts. Capacity The Company manufactured and shipped over 26.3 million airbag cushions and related components to the Company's global customers during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The Company believes it has adequate airbag cushion manufacturing capacity for its anticipated customer requirements in its 2006 fiscal year. The Company's South Carolina facility produced approximately 14.9 million yards of fabric in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The Company believes it has adequate airbag fabric capacity for its anticipated customer requirements in fiscal 2006. The Company utilizes weaving machines that are versatile in their ability to produce a broad array of air restraint and specialty technical fabrics for use in a large number of applications. The ability to interchange the machines between air restraint fabric and other specialty technical fabrics allows the Company to leverage its utilization of plant assets. In 2005 the Company placed in service 21 state-of-the-art water jet looms as part of its continuous improvement and technology program. Competition The Company competes with several independent suppliers of airbag cushions in the United States and Europe for sales to airbag module integrators. The Company also competes with plants owned by its airbag module integrator customers, which produce a substantial portion of airbag cushions for their own consumption, although they do not generally manufacture the same airbag cushions for the same vehicle models for which the Company manufactures. Most airbag module integrators subcontract a portion of their requirements for airbag cushions. However, decreased overall demand in the automotive market can increase the likelihood of decisions by module integrator customers to curtail outsourcing and begin production of certain programs using their own facilities so they can maintain full utilization of their own facilities during downturns. The Company believes that it has good working relationships with its customers due to its high volume, high quality and low-cost manufacturing capabilities and consistency of products and service. 8 The Company shares the North American airbag fabric market primarily with Milliken, Takata-Highland, Mastex, Key Safety and Autoliv. Takata-Highland, Key Safety and Autoliv, all airbag module integrators, produce a portion or all of their airbag fabric for use in their own airbag cushions. The automotive airbag cushion, airbag fabric and airbag module markets are highly competitive. Some of the Company's current and potential competitors have greater financial and other resources than the Company and some are more diversified than the Company. The Company competes primarily on the basis of its price, product quality, reliability, flexibility and capability to produce a wide range of models of passenger and driver airbag cushions and side impact airbag curtains and cushions. In addition, the Company's weaving plant in South Carolina has provided it with some measure of vertical integration, enhancing its ability to compete in the automotive airbag industry. Increased competition, as well as price reductions of airbag systems, could adversely affect the Company's revenues and profitability. Technical Centers The Company has technical centers in Greenville, South Carolina; Ensenada, Mexico; and Hildesheim, Germany. The center in Hildesheim, Germany has the ability to conduct static and dynamic deployment testing and analysis using high-speed video equipment and includes pendulum-testing capability, a sample shop with manual and CNC sewing equipment, a production-style laser cutter, volumetric measurement and analysis equipment, textile welding and other non-sewn fastening equipment. The center also has a materials laboratory, and can access the services of laboratory and textile personnel at the Company's facility in Greenville, South Carolina. In North America, the module integrators customarily perform the majority of advanced cushion testing; therefore, the Company has not seen a need for an advanced technical center for cushions in North America. However, all necessary validation testing and process development testing is performed in Ensenada, Mexico. The Ensenada, Mexico technical center consists of a testing laboratory and dedicated prototype cells, complete with separate staff and equipment. Through its textile laboratory located in Greenville, South Carolina, the Company has the ability to test and analyze a wide range of fabrics (airbag or other) under internationally accepted testing standards, including US-ASTM, Europe-DIN and ISO, Asian-JIS and Underwriters NFPA. The laboratory is A2LA accredited (ISO 17025) and certified with ISO/TS 16949 - the most important certifications for the industry. All validation testing and analytical testing of fabric is performed at this laboratory. Additionally, the Greenville facility has prototype-manufacturing capabilities. Qualification and Quality Control The Company's customers require the Company to meet specific requirements for design validation. The Company and its customers jointly participate in design and process validations and customers must be satisfied with reliability and performance prior to awarding a purchase order. All standards and requirements relating to product performance are required to be satisfied before the Company is qualified as a supplier by its customers. The Company maintains extensive quality control and quality assurance systems in its North American and European automotive facilities, including inspection and testing of all products, and is TS 16949 and ISO 9001 9002 certified. The more stringent TS 16949 replaces the Company's previous QS 9000 certification. The Company is currently in the process of certification for TS 16949 for the South Africa Joint Venture and the China Joint Venture, and expects completion during 2006. The Company also performs process capability studies and designs experiments to determine that the manufacturing processes meet or exceed the quality levels required by each customer. The fabric operation's laboratories have ISO 17025 (A2LA, certificate number 0548.01) and UL accreditation. The Company's fabric operation is also certified under the environmental and energy quality system ISO 14001. The Company was the first airbag fabric manufacturer to have its entire business (not just its manufacturing facility) certified under QS 9000. 9 Governmental Regulations The Company's operations are subject to various product safety, environmental, employee safety and wage and transportation related statutes and regulations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with existing laws and regulations and has obtained or applied for the necessary permits to conduct its business operations. Product Liability The Company is engaged in a business that could expose it to possible claims for injury resulting from the failure of products sold by it. In the past, there has been increased public attention to injuries and deaths of children and small adults due to the force of the inflation of airbags. To date, however, the Company has not been named as a defendant in any automotive product liability lawsuit, nor has it been threatened with any such lawsuit. The Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, which management believes to be adequate. However, a successful claim brought against the Company resulting in a product recall program or a final judgment in excess of its insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Seasonality The Company's airbag cushions and airbag fabric business is subject to the seasonal characteristics of the automotive industry, in which, generally, there are seasonal plant shutdowns in the third and fourth quarters of each calendar year. Backlog The Company does not reflect an order for airbag cushions or airbag fabric in backlog until it has received a purchase order and a material procurement release that specifies the quantity ordered and specific delivery dates. Generally, these orders are shipped within two to eight weeks of receipt of the purchase order and material release. As a result, the Company does not believe its backlog is a reliable measure of future airbag sales. Risks Resulting from Foreign Operations Certain of the Company's consolidated net sales are generated outside the United States. Foreign operations and exports to foreign markets are subject to a number of special risks including, but not limited to, risks with respect to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic and political destabilization and other disruption of markets, restrictive actions by foreign governments (such as restrictions on transfer of funds, export duties and quotas, foreign customs and tariffs and unexpected changes in regulatory environments), changes in foreign laws regarding trade and investment, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, nationalization, the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, foreign investment and loans and foreign tax laws. There can be no assurance that one or a combination of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to increase or maintain its foreign sales or on its future results of operations. In addition, the Company has a significant portion of its manufacturing operations in foreign countries and therefore purchases a significant portion of its raw materials from foreign suppliers. The production costs, profit margins and competitive position of the Company are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where it manufactures or purchases goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where its products are sold. Certain of the Company's operations generate net sales and incur expenses in foreign currencies. The Company's financial results from international operations may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Future fluctuations in certain currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company's financial results. The Company monitors its risk associated with the volatility of certain foreign currencies against its functional currency, the U.S. dollar. The impact of changes in the relationship of other currencies to the U.S. dollar in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 has resulted in the recognition of other expense, net of approximately $917,000. However, it is unknown what the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations will have on the Company's financial position or results of operations in the future. In certain situations, the Company utilizes derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges to reduce exposures to volatility of foreign currencies impacting the operation of its business. See 10 Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding derivatives and hedging. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional financial information by geographic area, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Employees At December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 2,900 employees. The Company's hourly employees in Mexico, the Czech Republic and South Africa are entitled to a federally regulated minimum wage, which is adjusted from time to time. The Company seeks to set wages for its hourly employees in China at a level designed to compete for skilled workers in its economic zone market. The Company's employees at its Mexican and Czech Republic facility are unionized. In addition, the Company's wholly owned German subsidiary has a workers' council pursuant to German statutory labor law. The Company has not experienced any work stoppages related to its work force and considers its relations with its employees and all unions currently representing its employees to be good. Environmental Matters Like similar companies, the Company's operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain materials, substances and wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, and the health and safety of employees (collectively, "Environmental Laws"). Such laws may impose joint and several liability and may apply to conditions at properties presently or formerly owned or operated by an entity or its predecessor as well as to conditions of properties at which wastes or other contamination attributable to an entity or its predecessor have been sent or otherwise come to be located. The nature of the Company's operations exposes it to the risk of claims with respect to such matters and there can be no assurance that violations of such laws have not occurred or will not occur or that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with such claims. Based upon its experience to date, the Company believes that the future cost of compliance with existing Environmental Laws and liability for known environmental claims pursuant to such Environmental Laws, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, future events, such as new information, changes in existing Environmental Laws or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities that could be material. An undiscounted reserve of $277,000 has been included in "other long-term liabilities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets for estimated future environmental expenditures related to the Company's facility in Greenville, South Carolina (the "Greenville facility") for conditions existing prior to the Company's ownership of the facility. Such reserve was established at the time the Company acquired the facility, and the amount was determined by reference to the results of a Phase II study performed at the Greenville facility. In addition, the Greenville facility has been identified along with numerous other parties as a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") at the Aquatech Environmental, Inc. Superfund Site. The Company believes that it is a de minimis party with respect to the site and that future clean-up costs incurred by the Company with respect to the site will not be material. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") has notified the Company that it believes Valentec Wells, LLC ("Valentec"), as a successor to one or more other companies, is one of the 73 largest Potentially Responsible Parties ("PRPs") with responsibility for the RRG Clayton Chemical Site (the "Site") in Sauget, Illinois under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"). Valentec is an inactive subsidiary of the Company. Valentec has entered into a Participation Agreement with a number of other companies that also have been named PRPs concerning the performance of limited response activities at the Site under an EPA Administrative Settlement Agreement and Order on Consent for Removal Action (the "Administrative Settlement"). Along with these other companies, the Company has become a party to the Administrative Settlement and estimated costs of this matter are currently considered de minimis. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's entry into the Administrative Settlement will limit any costs imposed on the Company as proposed in the Administrative Settlement because compliance with the Administrative Settlement does not release the Company from all further liability, and if costs were greater than the Company's estimates, they could be material to the Company; however the Company does not believe that under current circumstances, such costs could be material to the Company. 11 Although no assurances can be given in this regard, in the opinion of management, no material expenditures beyond those accrued are expected to be required for the Company's environmental control efforts and the final outcomes of these matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position or results of future operations. The Company believes that it currently is in compliance with applicable environmental regulations in all material respects. Management's opinion is based in part on the advice of independent consultants on environmental matters. Intellectual Property The Company holds thirty-five patents and approval for eight additional patents are pending. All patents relate to technical improvements for enhancement of product performance with respect to the Company's airbag, fabric and technical related products. Provided that all requisite maintenance fees are paid, the patents held by the Company will expire between the years 2011 and 2021. The Company also owns 49% of NxGen Technologies, LLC, which has granted a major automotive supplier an exclusive world-wide royalty bearing license to certain of NxGen's patents and patent know-how. See "The Company -- NxGen Partnership." Engineering, Research & Development The Company's fabric and airbag cushions operations have maintained an active design and development effort focused toward new and enhanced products and manufacturing processes. The Company designs and engineers its fabrics to meet its customers' specific applications and needs. While the component manufacturer originates most design requirements, the Company remains dedicated to improving the quality of existing products, as well as developing new products for all applications. Costs associated with design and development for fabric and airbag cushions were approximately $3.1 million, $1.5 million and $1.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, and in the nine month period from March 30, 2003 to December 31, 2003, respectively. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Downturns in the automotive industry, such as recent downturns in the North American automotive industry, usually reduce demand for the Company's products and therefore its revenues and income. Demand for the Company's products is generally tied to the demand for automobiles (which term includes light trucks and SUVs unless explicitly indicated otherwise). The Company sells its products to airbag module manufacturers which in turn sell their modules to various automotive manufacturers. The automotive manufacturers have, from time to time, experienced rising inventories of unsold automobiles resulting in reduced production in order to balance inventory levels with sales. Sustained reductions in automotive production reduce demand for the Company's products and therefore reduce its revenues and profitability. For example, the Company has recently experienced a decline in sales since the third quarter of 2005 in part as a result of downturns in the North American automotive industry. General Motors and Ford Motor Company have announced workforce reductions and plant closings and experienced rising cost pressures including, but not limited to increasing costs of worker healthcare. The Company is not able to predict how long these industry trends will continue, but a sustained downturn could have a material adverse affect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Company's results of operations are also subject to the effects of work stoppages within the automotive industry as a whole. In particular, the Company's sales of airbag products are vulnerable to interruptions as a result of work stoppages of labor forces of the Company's customers and/or major automotive manufacturers whose unionized workers may strike from time to time. The Company has historically experienced these interruptions in sales and believes it has the financial resources to withstand brief interruptions in sales caused by these types of work stoppages. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that future interruptions in sales would not have a material adverse affect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 12 Industry consolidation could reduce competition, decrease sales prices and drive down demand for the Company's products. Automotive suppliers, such as the Company's customers, are currently subject to the cost pressures in the automotive industry as described above. Consolidation within the automotive industry could result in further vertical integration of its customers, with the potential effect of decreased sales prices and demand for the Company's products. Such consolidation could have a potentially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position. New competition in North America market could reduce sales prices and demand for the Company's products. Automotive suppliers, such as the Company's customers, are currently subject to the cost pressures in the automotive industry as described above. Such cost pressures increase the possibility for a customer to assist in developing new suppliers in the North America market, with the possibility of decreased sales prices and demand for the Company's products. New suppliers could be existing U.S. companies in similar or related businesses or existing foreign competition expanding into the North America market. New suppliers and competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company's customers and/or suppliers resulting in a potentially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Nearly two-thirds of the Company's sales are with three customers. Characteristic of the industry, the Company's customer base is highly concentrated. The Company's net sales to its three largest customers aggregated approximately 30%, 21% and 9% of net sales in the year ended December 31, 2005. Net sales to these same three customers were approximately 30%, 24% and 8% of net sales, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2004 and approximately 32%, 23% and 13%, respectively, in the nine months ended December 31, 2003. The loss of any of these three customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Company's credit risk is concentrated in three customers. The Company is subject to a concentration of credit risk relating to its trade receivables. At December 31, 2005, three customers accounted for approximately 29%, 16% and 15% of the Company's trade receivables. At December 31, 2004, these same three customers accounted for approximately 36%, 11% and 10%, and at December 31, 2003 for approximately 36%, 15% and 5%, of its trade receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and generally does not require collateral. The Company evaluates potential losses for uncollectible accounts and such losses have historically been immaterial and within management's expectations. However, if such losses were to become material, the Company could experience an adverse affect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Company's customers are also some of its primary competitors. Characteristic of the industry, the Company supplies airbag cushions to airbag module integrators, most of which also produce a portion of their cushion requirements themselves. As a result, the Company competes with many of its own customers; however, in most cases the Company's customers do not produce the same cushions for the same automobile models for which the Company produces cushions. The Company's customers from time to time decide to bring production of their airbag cushions back in-house (in-sourcing). This occurs more frequently during downturns in the automotive industry such as the current downturn in the North American automotive industry described above. Decreases in demand for automobiles in both the European and the North American markets resulted in decisions by certain customers in 2005 to curtail outsourcing and begin production of certain programs using their own facilities which resulted in reduced sales for the Company. If consolidation continues in the automotive supplier market, the adverse effect on the Company of a decision by a single customer to increase in-sourcing its airbag cushion production would be magnified. The result of in-sourcing decisions made by the Company's customers could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 13 The Company is dependant on a major nylon yarn supplier. The raw materials for the Company's fabric operations largely consist of synthetic yarns provided by Invista, Pharr Yarns, DuPont, Polymide High Performance ("PHP"), and Unifi, among others. The primary yarns include nylon, polyester and Nomex. Invista and PHP are the leading suppliers of airbag fabric yarn to both the market and the Company. Invista supplies a majority of the nylon yarn used in the Company's airbag fabric operations pursuant to purchase orders or releases on open purchase orders. The loss of Invista as a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is experiencing increases in prices for raw materials which may not be able to be passed along to customers. During 2004 and 2005, one of the Company's largest raw materials suppliers implemented price increases of approximately 11% and 4%, respectively, on raw material yarn purchased for the Company's North America airbag fabric weaving facility. The Company's negotiations with its airbag cushion customers in North America to increase prices of certain of its products in order to preserve the Company's profit margins on these products were only partially successful and resulted in a variety of agreements where such price increases were either agreed to or future sales price reductions were deferred. Management has estimated that the impact of currently known increases in the cost of raw material purchases will be to increase cost of sales by approximately $2.0 million on an annual basis. If such price increases continue, the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected. The Company has substantial operations in Mexico, Europe, South Africa and China, which are subject to a variety of risks. A significant portion of the Company's consolidated net sales are generated outside the United States. Foreign operations and sales in foreign markets are subject to a number of special risks including, but not limited to, risks with respect to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic and political destabilization and other disruption of markets, restrictive actions by foreign governments (such as restrictions on transfer of funds, export duties and quotas, foreign customs and tariffs and unexpected changes in regulatory environments), changes in foreign laws regarding trade and investment, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, nationalization, the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, foreign investment and loans and foreign tax laws. There can be no assurance that one or a combination of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to increase or maintain its foreign sales or on its future results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The Company's operations in Mexico, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, China and South Africa expose the Company to currency exchange rate risks associated with the volatility of the relevant foreign currencies against its functional currency, the U.S. dollar. The Company has a significant portion of its manufacturing operations in these foreign countries and purchases a significant portion of its raw materials from foreign suppliers. Certain of the Company's operations also generate net sales and incur expenses in foreign currencies. The Company's primary foreign market for sales is Europe. The production costs, profit margins and competitive position of the Company are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where it manufactures or purchases goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where its products are sold. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs. Financial statements of substantially all of the Company's foreign operations are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency. Translation of these foreign operations to United States dollars occurs using the current exchange rate as of the date of the balance sheet for balance sheet accounts and a weighted average exchange rate for results of foreign operations. Translation gains or losses are recognized in "accumulated other comprehensive income" as a component of stockholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. A stronger U.S. dollar leads to less favorable translation results and a weaker U.S. dollar leads to more favorable translation results. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, the impact of changes in the relationship of other currencies to the U.S. dollar resulted in the recognition of other expense, net of approximately $917,000. In the fiscal year ended 14 December 31, 2004 and the nine month period from March 30, 2003 to December 31, 2003, the impact of changes in the relationship of other currencies to the U.S. dollar resulted in the recognition of other income, net of approximately $677,000 and $2.0 million, respectively. It is unknown what effect foreign currency rate fluctuations will have on the Company's financial position or results of operations in the future. If, however, there were a sustained decline of the relevant currencies versus the U.S. dollar, the Company's financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, the Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposures to volatility of foreign currencies. Certain operating expenses at the Company's Mexican facilities are paid in Mexican pesos. To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, the Company periodically enters into forward contracts to buy Mexican pesos. Certain intercompany sales at the Company's Czech facility are denominated and settled in Euros. To reduce exposure to fluctuation in the Euro and Czech Koruna exchange rates, the Company periodically enters into forward contracts to buy Czech Korunas with Euros. The Company will either gain or lose money on the forward contracts depending on how actual exchange rates compare to the purchase prices of the forward contracts, though by locking in purchase prices with the forward contracts the Company limits its exposures to adverse changes in exchange rates to the extent of the amounts subject to the hedges. For further information on the Company's risks related to such hedging see, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." The Company expects exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any period, and there can be no assurance that the future effects will be similar to the effects described in this risk factor. The Company's primary credit facility matures on October 8, 2006. The Company's credit facility with Wachovia Bank, N.A., which includes a $35 million revolving line of credit and two term loan facilities, matures on October 8, 2006. At December 31, 2005, $2.3 million was outstanding under the revolver, $521,000 was utilized under a letter of credit sub-facility, and $1.5 million was outstanding under one of the term loans. Although no assurances can be provided in this regard, the Company's management currently believes that it will be able to renegotiate or replace these facilities prior to their expiration and maturity with amended or new facilities on comparable terms. The inability to secure such financing could adversely affect the Company's ability to procure inventory and fund other working capital needs and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Credit Facilities" under "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company's credit facilities. Changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions could have a material adverse affect. Like similar companies, the Company's operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain materials, substances and wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, and the health and safety of employees (collectively, "Environmental Laws"). See "Environmental Matters" in Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. Based upon its experience to date, the Company believes that the future cost of compliance with existing Environmental Laws and liability for known environmental claims pursuant to such Environmental Laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. However, future events, such as new information, changes in existing Environmental Laws or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Company is engaged in a business that is prone to product liability claims. The Company is engaged in a business that could expose it to possible claims for injury resulting from the failure of products sold by it. In the past, there has been increased public attention to injuries and deaths of children and small adults due to the force of the inflation of airbags. To date, however, the Company has not been named as a defendant in any automotive product liability lawsuit, nor has it been threatened with any such lawsuit. The Company 15 maintains product liability insurance coverage, which management believes to be adequate. However, a successful claim brought against the Company resulting in a product recall program or a final judgment in excess of its insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company, and any successful claim against the Company could result in increases in premiums for, and potential difficulties in securing, product liability insurance. Affiliates of W.L. Ross & Co. LLC own approximately 77.0% of the Company's common stock and hold three of the four positions on the Company's board of directors. WLR Recovery Fund II, L.P. and WLR Recovery Fund III, L.P., which are affiliates of W.L. Ross & Co. LLC, collectively own approximately 77.0% of the Company's outstanding common stock. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., David H. Storper and Michael J. Gibbons, each of whom is an officer of W.L. Ross & Co. LLC, hold three of the four currently-filled positions on the Company's board of directors. W.L. Ross & Co. LLC and its affiliates can therefore determine the outcome of most if not all votes of the board of directors and stockholders of the Company. W.L. Ross & Co. LLC has informed the Company that circumstances may occur in which it and its affiliated major investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including among other things, taking advantage of certain corporate opportunities that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in the Company or another company in which they invest. These transactions might involve risks to the Company's other holders of common stock or adversely affect the Company or other investors. There is a limited market for the Company's common stock. The Company's common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange, but rather trades on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Approximately 77.0% of the Company's common stock is held by WLR Recovery Fund II, L.P. and WLR Recovery Fund III, L.P., which are affiliates of W.L. Ross & Co. LLC. There is a limited market for the Company's common stock and there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of an investment in the Company's common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 