ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company and its operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risks when evaluating the Company’s prospects. The risks below are not the only risks facing the Company, but are currently considered the most material by management. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently considers immaterial could adversely affect the Company in the future. Should any of these risks occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our current financial condition may place us under stress which could result in the evaluation of strategic alternatives. The Company’s financial position remains under severe stress, with limited liquidity due to the negative effect of the global economic crisis on sales as well as the cash requirements of our operations, which continue to exceed the cash generated by our operations. In addition, the Company was not in compliance with certain debt covenants under some of our debt facilities as of December 31, 2008. While the Company has obtained certain limited waivers with respect to certain covenant violations, any failure by the Company to obtain necessary waivers, amendments or refinancings with respect to the debt agreements for which covenant violations exist, or may occur in the future, or to remain in compliance with existing debt agreements or obtain any necessary funding in amounts, at times and on terms acceptable to it, if at all, may result in the acceleration of significant amounts of obligations, may result in severe liquidity issues, may delay or make impossible the implementation of the Company’s strategy, and may materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as well as its ability to operate as a going-concern. In such circumstances, the Company would need to explore other alternatives, which could include a potential reorganization or restructuring under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we cannot comply with the covenants in our credit facilities, or obtain waivers or other relief therefrom from our lenders, we may default, which could result in a loss of the sources of our liquidity and an acceleration of our indebtedness. The Company’s credit agreements and other debt obligations contain various affirmative and negative financial and other covenants, some of which adjust automatically to impose additional restrictions in the near future. The Company is currently not in compliance with certain of its covenants under various debt facilities, and expects that it will be difficult to comply with future covenant requirements based on the Company’s current and expected financial condition and results of operations. The Company has obtained temporary waivers of the existing defaults from the lenders under the applicable facilities through May 1, 2009, and is in discussions with those lenders regarding a restructuring of the terms and conditions of those borrowing arrangements. In the event that the Company is unable to reach an agreement to restructure those debt facilities, or if the Company is unable to obtain further waivers of the existing or any future defaults, then the lenders would have the right, subject to any appropriate cure periods, to exercise any of their available remedies, which include the right cease lending any additional amounts to us or, in certain instances, to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Such an acceleration of those debt obligations could allow the lenders under any other debt obligations of the Company to which a cross default or cross acceleration provision applies to declare all borrowings thereunder to be immediately due and payable as well. If we are unable to repay the borrowings with respect to any debt obligations when they become due in accordance with their terms or upon such an acceleration, then the lenders have certain rights to proceed against our assets that are pledged as collateral. The election by any of our lenders to exercise any such remedy could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In such circumstances, the Company would need to explore other strategic alternatives, which could include a potential reorganization or restructuring under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws. The Company’s inability to repay or refinance its substantial debt as it becomes due in the next twelve months could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make required payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. However, in the near-term our business is not expected to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make such payments for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, expected continued losses from our on-going businesses, the current economic climate, delays in the completion and ramp-up of the international greenfield initiatives, expected changes in currency exchange rates in countries in which we operate, local laws restricting the movement of cash between the Company and our subsidiaries and the other reasons described elsewhere in this report, including under the heading “Outlook” in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to service our debt, or are unable to refinance all or a portion of such debt at times, and on terms, which are acceptable to us, we may have to take such actions as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional capital through alternative sources. Any of these actions may not be able to be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, our various credit agreements, which contain certain affirmative and negative financial and operating covenants, may restrict us from adopting any one or more of these alternatives. Our inability to repay or refinance our debt maturing during the next twelve months, or the violation of any covenants which may impair, restrict or limit our ability to do so, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions and uncertain economic outlook could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility which has negatively affected the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict when economic conditions will improve or stabilize. A prolonged period of economic volatility, or continued decline could continue to have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate the other risks related to our business. Continued disruptions in the financial markets could further adversely impact the availability and cost of credit, and could negatively affect the U.S. and world economies and our business. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions, and the lack of liquidity generally available, are adversely impacting the availability and cost of incremental credit for many companies. These disruptions are also adversely affecting the U.S. and world economies, and negatively impacting consumer spending patterns. These negative impacts have, and, in turn, could further negatively affect our business either through loss of sales to, or the inability to meet payment obligations by, any of our customers so affected or through the inability to meet our commitments because of a loss of supplies from any of our suppliers so affected. Further, we may be unable to obtain any credit necessary to comply with any purchase or other commitments. There are no assurances that government or private sector responses, if any, to these disruptions will restore consumer confidence or improve the liquidity of the financial markets or lessen the impact on affected market participants. These continued disruptions, lack of liquidity or impacts to our customers and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Successful execution of the Company’s strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the Company obtaining financing at times, and on terms, deemed acceptable by it. Successful execution of the Company’s strategy, and the related implementation of its international greenfield initiatives, will require the Company to periodically obtain financing from external sources. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain this financing in amounts, at times and on terms acceptable to it, if at all. Any failure by the Company to obtain any necessary financing in amounts, at times and on terms acceptable to it, if at all, may delay, or make impossible to implement, the Company’s strategy, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Changes in the availability and cost of any potential debt and/or equity financing may impact the Company’s ability to implement its strategic plan. The Company expects that its cash flows from operations in the near term will not be sufficient to finance the successful execution of its strategy and the related implementation of its international greenfield initiatives. As a result, the Company expects that it will be required to periodically obtain funding from external sources. Depending upon the perceived cost and availability of any proposed funding at the appropriate time, the Company believes that future external funding may come from additional borrowings under its various credit agreements, or the public or private issuance of equity or debt securities or funding from certain entities affiliated with Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., the Company’s chairman of the board. The Company cannot provide any assurances that any financing will be available to it upon acceptable terms, if at all, at any time in the future. The Company’s Bank Credit Agreement (as defined below) contains certain availability and average adjusted availability among other, requirements. The Company must maintain availability or average adjusted availability (as defined) above the predefined levels set out therein, and comply with the other financial covenants and limitations, or certain limitations could be imposed on the Company and its operations by the lenders thereunder. Without the availability of cash pursuant to the Bank Credit Agreement, the Company believes it would be more difficult to obtain adequate financing to support its liquidity requirements. If we are not able to obtain sufficient cash from our operations or from any of these potential alternative funding sources, our operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. The Company operates in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market and faces intense competition from both established entities and new entries in its markets that may adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company’s markets are highly competitive and evolving rapidly, both in the U.S. and internationally, and the Company has been subject to increased competition for its products. Competition is generally based upon price, product quality and service. The Company competes for sales with large integrated enterprises that may have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company, as well as with small, niche manufacturers that may be able to achieve greater market penetration than the Company in certain regions or with respect to individual product lines. Increased competition for the Company’s products, including in the form of lower cost production in other countries, or foreign imports at lower prices, could result in decreased prices and/or demand for the Company’s products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In addition, many companies both in and outside of the Company’s industries have active research and development programs. Many of these companies have considerable experience in areas of competing interests to the Company. The Company cannot determine if other manufacturers are conducting potentially competitive research, which could result in the development and introduction of processes, products or materials that are either comparable or superior to the processes or materials the Company uses, or the products the Company sells. Further, new product introductions, product enhancements or the use of other technologies by the Company’s competitors could lead to a loss of market share and cause a decline in sales and/or gross margins. Cost pressures resulting in further integration or industry consolidation could reduce sales opportunities, decrease sales prices and drive down demand for the Company’s products, especially within the automotive safety segment. Automotive suppliers, such as certain of the Company’s customers, are currently subject to increasing cost pressures. As a result, certain suppliers are continuing to vertically integrate some industry operations. Consolidation within the automotive supply industry, as well as further vertical integration among the Company’s customers, in either case combined with increased in-sourcing as described below, could result in decreased sales prices and demand for the Company’s products. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Demand for the Company’s products varies with trends in consumer demand for automobiles, the fashion industry, and general economic cycles, as well as other patterns. Demand for the Company’s automotive textile products is generally related to the demand for automobiles. A change in any number of factors, including U.S., European or world business cycles, imbalances between consumer demand and inventories of retailers and manufacturers, consumer spending patterns and changes in fashion trends, could affect demand for textile products and, in turn, result in decreased sales prices and/or demand for the Company’s products. Demand for the Company’s apparel and interior furnishing products also vary with consumer spending patterns and changes in fashion. Any additional negative changes could have a further material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Downturns in the automotive industry, as well as production stoppages, typically reduce demand for the Company’s automotive safety products and, therefore, reduce the Company’s revenues and income. The Company sells its automotive safety products to Tier 1 suppliers, which in turn sell their modules to various automotive manufacturers. Automotive manufacturers have, from time to time, and are currently, experiencing rising inventories of unsold automobiles resulting in reduced production in order to balance inventory levels with sales. Additional sustained reductions in automotive production further reduce demand for the Company’s products and therefore reduce its revenues and profitability and could have a further material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The results of operations of the automotive safety segment are also subject to the effects of work stoppages within the automotive industry as a whole. In particular, sales of airbag products are vulnerable to interruptions as a result of work stoppages of labor forces of customers and/or major automotive manufacturers whose unionized workers may strike from time to time. New suppliers in the North American automotive safety products market could reduce sales prices and demand for the Company’s automotive safety products. The cost pressures currently being experienced in the automotive industry increase the possibility that a customer may seek to qualify new suppliers in the North American market, with the possibility of decreased sales prices and demand for the Company’s automotive safety products. New suppliers could be existing U.S. companies in similar or related businesses or existing foreign competition expanding into the North American market. New suppliers and competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s customers and/or suppliers resulting in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company’s customers for airbag fabric and airbag cushions may, in certain circumstances, increase their internal production of airbag fabric and airbag cushions, reducing their demand for the Company’s automotive safety products. The Company supplies airbag fabric and airbag cushions to Tier 1 suppliers. Most Tier 1 suppliers produce airbag cushions for some models of cars and trucks internally and outsource their production requirements for other models to Tier 2 suppliers, such as the Company. From time to time, Tier 1 suppliers decide to in-source the production of airbag cushions for car and truck models that were previously outsourced. During downturns in the automotive industry, as is currently being experienced, Tier 1 suppliers tend to in-source a greater portion of their requirements in order to maximize utilization of their own facilities. Similarly, but to a lesser extent, some Tier 1 suppliers in-source a portion of their airbag fabric requirements, and such in-sourcing also tends to increase during downturns in the automotive industry. These in-sourcing decisions have affected the Company, and any additional in-sourcing decisions by Tier 1 suppliers could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company’s results could be affected by fluctuations in the cost and availability of materials as well as natural and other resources used in the production of the Company’s products. The primary materials used in the production of the Company’s products include cotton, wool, nylon and polyester. In addition, the Company relies heavily on naturally occurring resources such as fuel, as well as certain chemicals, in the production of its products. The materials and other resources used in the production of the Company’s products are subject to fluctuations in price and availability. For instance, cotton prices and availability vary from season to season depending upon crop yields and demand. The price of nylon and polyester is influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and costs, petroleum prices and the cost of polymers used in producing polyester. The Company attempts to pass along certain of these material price increases to its customers in order to protect its profit margins. Its success in so doing is dependent upon market dynamics present at the time of any proposed price increases. With limited exceptions, increases in prices of materials or the resources used in the production of products have historically not been able to be, and in the future may not be able to be, passed along to customers of the Company through increases in prices of the Company’s products. The Company’s inability to pass on the effects of any such material price increases to its customers may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Decreased material or resource availability could impair the Company’s ability to meet its production requirements on a timely basis. If any production delays occur, or if any increases in these prices cannot be passed along to the Company’s customers, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s automotive safety segment is dependent on a small number of major synthetic yarn suppliers. The raw materials for the Company’s automotive safety fabric operations largely consist of synthetic yarns provided by INVISTA, Inc. and PHP, among others. The primary yarns include nylon, polyester and Nomex. INVISTA and PHP are the leading suppliers of airbag fabric yarn to both the Company and the airbag cushion market generally. In particular, INVISTA supplies a majority of the nylon yarn used in the Company’s airbag fabric operations. The loss of either INVISTA or PHP as a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company is dependent on the success of, and its relationships with, its largest customers. The customer base of the Company’s automotive safety segment is highly concentrated, and this segment relies on key contractual relationships with several large Tier 1 suppliers. The most significant customers to this division, in alphabetical order, are Autoliv, Inc., Key Safety Systems, Inc., the Takata Group and TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. Each of Autoliv and TRW accounted for over 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2008. The loss of any key customer, its direction to a significant number of its contractors to purchase fabric or other products from a producer other than the Company or a material slowdown in the business of one of the key customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company’s apparel and textile solutions business is also dependent on the success of, and its relationships with, its largest customers. While none of the Company’s customers in the bottom-weight woven apparel fabrics segment accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total direct net sales in 2008, one large customer of the denim fabrics division (Levi Strauss & Co.) is able to direct certain of its garment producers to purchase denim (or other fabric) directly from the Company for use in Levi Strauss products. Although Levi Strauss is not directly liable in any way for the payment by any of those contractors for fabric purchased, the Company believes that continued sales to these customers are dependent upon the Company maintaining a strong supplier/customer relationship with Levi Strauss, as well as Levi Strauss’ continued success in the marketplace. Execution of the Company’s strategy will involve a further increase in international operations. Significant international operations involve special risks that could increase expenses, adversely affect operating results and require increased time and attention of the Company’s management. The Company currently has significant operations outside of the United States. Additionally, the Company may, at some future date, seek to further expand its international operations as part of its business strategy. International operations are subject to a number of risks in addition to those faced by domestic operations, including: • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of the Company’s intellectual property rights; • economic instability in certain countries or regions resulting in higher interest rates and inflation, which could make the Company’s products more expensive in those countries or raise the Company’s cost of operations in those countries; • changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade and investment abroad; • the possibility of the nationalization of foreign assets; • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if the Company does not invest sufficiently in its international operations; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • restrictions on transfers of funds, foreign customs and tariffs and other unexpected regulatory changes; • difficulties in staffing, managing and operating international operations; • difficulty in identifying desirable local partners for alliances or joint ventures and managing any such relationships; • obtaining project financing from third parties, which may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; and • political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which the Company will have facilities. Foreign operations also subject the Company to numerous additional laws and regulations affecting its business, such as those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, antitrust and competition, environmental protection, consumer protection, import/export and anticorruption, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). The FCPA prohibits giving anything of value intended to influence the awarding of government contracts. Although the Company has put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, its employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate any of these requirements. Violations of these regulations could subject the Company to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. A portion of the Company’s transactions outside of the United States are denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company expects that it will continue to purchase a portion of its raw materials from foreign suppliers in foreign currencies, and incur other expenses in those currencies. As a result, future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Although the Company may enter into hedging transactions, hedging foreign currency transaction exposures is complex and subject to uncertainty. The Company may be negatively affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of total sales. Financial statements of certain of the Company’s foreign operations are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency while certain other financial statements of these foreign operations will be prepared using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Translation of financial statements of foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the local currency as the functional currency occurs using the exchange rate as of the date of the balance sheet for balance sheet accounts and at a weighted average exchange rate for results of operations. The Company’s consolidated balance sheet and results of operations may be negatively impacted by changes in the exchange rates as of the applicable date of translation. For instance, a stronger U.S. dollar at an applicable date of translation will lead to less favorable results after the applicable translation than a weaker U.S. dollar at that date. The Company’s international greenfield initiatives may not produce expected benefits. The Company’s strategy includes the completion and operation of several international greenfield initiatives. The failure of one or more of these initiatives to be completed in a timely manner or at costs currently expected by management, or to produce sales in amounts and at times expected by management, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In December 2008, the Company was notified of the closing of the cut/sew/laundry operations owned by a significant customer of Cone Denim de Nicaragua in Central America, and the Company believes that no similar cut/sew/laundry operations are likely to be established or developed in the near future in that region. Further, in February 2009, the largest customer of the Company’s Nicaraguan facility announced that it would be discontinuing production in certain of its facilities in the Central American region, which is expected to result in a material reduction of sales opportunities in the near-term. These plant closures by our customers demonstrate the further deterioration of the supply chain in the Central America region which is critical to the long-term success of the Company’s operations in that region. Accordingly, the Company is currently evaluating strategic alternatives for its Nicaraguan denim facility and plans to temporarily idle the facility until such decisions have been finalized. The idling of that facility would, in the near term, have an adverse effect on the Company’s net sales related to bottom-weight woven apparel fabrics. Changing international trade regulations and future quantitative limits, duties or tariffs may increase the Company’s costs or limit the amount of products that the Company can import from suppliers in a particular country. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, on textile products could limit the countries from which the Company is able to produce or source its products, restricting the availability of raw material and finished apparel sourcing by requiring yarn and/or fabric to be produced in certain countries or setting quantitative limits on products that may be imported from a particular country. These trade restrictions could have increasingly significant impact on the Company’s business if, after the Company has moved its operations to a particular location, unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. The countries in which the Company’s products are manufactured, or into which they are imported, may from time to time impose additional regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: • additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on World Trade Organization, or “WTO,” rules, and which would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in those countries; • quantitative limits on goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country, including the imposition of further “safeguard” mechanisms by the U.S. Government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting the Company’s ability to import goods from particular countries, such as China; • changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than the Company has historically paid; • modification of the trading status of certain countries; • requirements as to where products are manufactured; • creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or • creation of other restrictions on imports. Adverse changes in trade regulations and the costs associated with such regulations could interrupt production in offshore facilities or delay receipt of the Company’s products in the United States and other markets, which would harm its business. Furthermore, future trade agreements could provide the Company’s competitors with an advantage over it or increase the Company’s costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The Company’s products may become subject to future government regulation that could impair its operations. Especially with respect to products produced for the U.S. Government, certain of the Company’s products could become subject to stringent government regulation in the United States, or other countries in the future. These regulatory processes can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Additionally, securing necessary clearances or approvals may require the submission of extensive data and other supporting information. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in fines, recall, total or partial suspension of distribution, withdrawal of existing product or the inability to integrate product offerings. If any of these occur, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company faces risks from changes in U.S. Government policies that would be unfavorable to domestic manufacturers. The Berry Amendment currently requires that the U.S. Department of Defense purchase certain products, including military clothing, manufactured with 100% U.S. content and labor. The Company relies on this requirement to profitably provide government uniforms and fabrics. If the government was to remove or reduce this domestic production requirement, the Company’s sales and profit levels could be adversely affected. If the Company does not protect its proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of its products and technology, its financial results could be harmed. The Company relies on a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect its proprietary information. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Third parties may copy aspects of processes, products or materials, or otherwise obtain and use proprietary information of the Company without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently, including by designing around patents of the Company. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of the Company’s proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and the Company may be subject to unauthorized use of its products in those countries. Any legal action that the Company may bring to protect proprietary information could be expensive and may distract management from day-to-day operations. Unauthorized copying or use of products or proprietary information of the Company could result in reduced sales of its products. The Company has an assumed defined benefit pension plan, which will require substantial funding over the next several years. This required funding will reduce funds available for the execution of the Company’s strategic expansion. The Company’s Burlington Industries subsidiary has a frozen defined benefit pension plan which is underfunded. This plan has a provision that allows individuals to receive their pension benefits in a lump sum payment when they leave the employment of the Company. Any material downsizing of the Company’s domestic workforce covered by this plan would likely result in the requirement for significant cash payouts from the plan, increase the funding deficit, and require funding from the Company, thereby reducing funds available for use in the execution of the Company’s strategy. Low investment performance by our pension plan assets may require the Company to increase our pension liability and expense, which may require the Company to fund a portion of pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plan is directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. Due to the significant market downturn during 2008, the funded status of our pension plans has declined and actual asset returns were below the assumed rate of return used to determine pension expense. If plan assets continue to perform below expectations, future pension expense and funding obligations will increase and therefore divert funds from other potential uses. Changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain materials, substances and wastes; the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; and the health and safety of employees. Future events, such as new information, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, or more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, may give rise to expenditures or liabilities that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The success of the Company depends on the abilities of its senior management team, as well as the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the abilities of its management team. The management team must be able to effectively work together to successfully conduct the Company’s current operations, as well as implement the Company’s strategy, which includes significant international expansion. If they are unable to do so, the results of operations and financial condition of the Company may suffer. In addition, as part of the Company’s strategy of international expansion, there is intense competition for the services of qualified personnel. The failure to retain current key managers or key members of the design, product development, manufacturing, merchandising or marketing staff, or to hire additional qualified personnel for new operations could be detrimental to the Company’s business. Anti-takeover provisions contained in the Company’s governance documents, and Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult for the Company’s stockholders to replace or remove the Company’s board of directors and could deter or delay third-parties from acquiring the Company, which may adversely affect the marketability and market price of the Company’s common stock. Provisions contained in the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Company’s board of directors in any one year, and thus prevent them from changing the composition of management. These same provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by management and the board of directors of the Company. In addition, the Company may, in the future, be subject to certain provisions of Delaware corporate law that may prevent certain stockholders from engaging in a business 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements combination with the Company. Stockholders who might desire to participate in this type of transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change in the Company’s management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of the Company’s stock. Restrictions contained in certain agreements to which the Company is, or may become a party, such as various credit agreements, may limit its activities, including the ability to make dividend payments, undergo capital changes, and undertake capital expenditures or complete acquisitions. The Company is, and may in the future, be required to comply with certain limitations set forth in financing or other agreements. For example, certain financing agreements to which the Company is currently a party contain customary reporting obligations and affirmative and negative covenants, including, but not limited to, certain restrictions on the uses of certain proceeds received by the Company, capital changes, mergers and consolidations, dividend payments, capital expenditures, indebtedness, liens, acquisitions and investments. Any such restrictions may make it more difficult for the Company to successfully execute its business strategy, grow its business or compete with companies not similarly restricted. There may be circumstances in which the interests of the Company’s significant stockholders could be in conflict with your interests as a stockholder. Affiliates of WLR own approximately 86% of Company’s total voting stock on a fully diluted basis. Also, affiliates of WLR hold six of the eight positions on the Company’s board of directors. Circumstances may arise in which affiliates of WLR or other major investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in the Company or another company in which they invest. In connection with any such transaction involving the Company, WLR could have interests that might conflict with, be different from, or be in addition to, the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. In addition, the Company may from time to time engage in transactions with related parties and affiliates that include, among other things, management and consulting arrangements. Further impairment charges with respect to the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill and property, plant and equipment initiated by adverse industry or market developments. The Company has a significant investment in goodwill and other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Impairment of such assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities or affect the products sold by our businesses, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included as a component of operating income. We remain subject to future risk in the event that goodwill and other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment become further impaired. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 