ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company and its operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risks when evaluating the Company’s prospects. The risks below are not the only risks facing the Company, but are currently considered the most material by management. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently considers immaterial could adversely affect the Company in the future. Should any of these risks occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company operates in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market and faces intense competition from both established entities and new entries in its markets that may adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company’s markets are highly competitive and evolving rapidly, both in the U.S. and internationally, and the Company has been subject to increased competition for its products. Competition is generally based upon price, product quality and service. The Company competes for sales with large integrated enterprises that may have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company, as well as with small, niche manufacturers that may be able to achieve greater market penetration than the Company in certain regions or with respect to individual product lines. Increased competition for the Company’s products, including in the form of lower cost production in other countries, or foreign imports at low prices, could result in decreased prices and/or demand for the Company’s products, which could have a potentially adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In addition, many companies both in and outside of the Company’s industries have active research and development programs. Many of these companies have considerable experience in areas of competing interests to the Company. The Company cannot determine if other manufacturers are conducting potentially competitive research, which could result in the development and introduction of processes, products or materials that are either comparable or superior to the processes or materials the Company uses, or the products the Company sells. Further, new product introductions, product enhancements and the use of other technologies by the Company’s competitors could lead to a loss of market acceptance and cause a decline in sales or gross margins. Cost pressures resulting in further integration or industry consolidation could reduce sales opportunities, decrease sales prices and drive down demand for the Company’s products, especially within the automotive safety business. Automotive suppliers, such as certain of the Company’s customers, are currently subject to cost pressures. As a result, certain suppliers have begun to vertically integrate some industry operations. Consolidation within the automotive supply industry, as well as further vertical integration among the Company’s customers, in either case combined with increased in-sourcing as described below, could result in decreased sales prices and demand for the Company’s products. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could have a potentially adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. - 14 - Index to Financial Statements Demand for the Company’s products varies with trends in consumer demand for automobiles, the fashion industry, and general economic cycles, as well as other patterns. Demand for the Company’s automotive textile products is generally related to the demand for automobiles. A change in any number of factors, including U.S. and world business cycles, imbalances between consumer demand and inventories of retailers and manufacturers, consumer spending patterns and changes in fashion trends, could affect demand for textile products and, in turn, result in decreased sales prices and/or demand for the Company’s products. Demand for the Company’s apparel and interior furnishing products also vary with those trends. Any such changes could have a potentially adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company’s customers of airbag fabric and airbag cushions may, in certain circumstances, increase their internal production of airbag fabric and airbag cushions, reducing their demand for the Company’s automotive safety products. The Company supplies airbag fabric and airbag cushions to Tier 1 suppliers. Most Tier 1 suppliers produce airbag cushions for some models of cars and trucks internally and outsource their production requirements for other models to Tier 2 suppliers, such as the Company. From time to time, Tier 1 suppliers decide to in-source the production of airbag cushions for car and truck models that were previously outsourced. During downturns in the automotive industry, Tier 1 suppliers tend to in-source more frequently in order to maximize utilization of their own facilities. Similarly, but to a lesser extent, some Tier 1 suppliers in-source a portion of their airbag fabric requirements, and such in-sourcing also tends to increase during downturns in the automotive industry. Recent decreases in demand for automobiles in both the North American and the European markets resulted in the decisions by certain Tier 1 suppliers in 2005 and 2006 to curtail outsourcing and in-source additional production, which resulted in reduced sales. Any additional in-sourcing decisions by Tier 1 suppliers could materially adversely affect results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Downturns in the automotive industry, as well as production stoppages, typically reduce demand for the Company’s automotive safety products and, therefore, reduce the Company’s revenues and income. The Company sells its automotive safety products to Tier 1 suppliers, which in turn sell their modules to various automotive manufacturers. Automotive manufacturers have, from time to time, experienced rising inventories of unsold automobiles resulting in reduced production in order to balance inventory levels with sales. Sustained reductions in automotive production reduce demand for the Company’s products and therefore reduce its revenues and profitability. Any sustained downturn within the automotive production market could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The results of operations of the automotive safety business unit are also subject to the effects of work stoppages within the automotive industry as a whole. In particular, sales of airbag products are vulnerable to interruptions as a result of work stoppages of labor forces of customers and/or major automotive manufacturers whose unionized workers may strike from time to time. New suppliers in the North American automotive safety products market could reduce sales prices and demand for the Company’s automotive safety products. The cost pressures currently being experienced in the automotive industry increase the possibility that a customer may seek to qualify new suppliers in the North American market, with the possibility of decreased sales prices and demand for the Company’s automotive safety products. New suppliers could be existing U.S. companies in similar or related businesses or existing foreign competition expanding into the North American market. New suppliers and competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s customers and/or suppliers resulting in a potentially adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company’s results could be affected by fluctuations in the cost and availability of materials and naturally occurring and other resources used in the production of the Company’s products. The primary materials used in the production of the Company’s products include cotton, wool, nylon and polyester. In addition, the Company relies heavily on naturally occurring resources such as fuel, as well as certain chemicals, in the production of its products. The materials and other resources used in the production of the Company’s products are subject to fluctuations in price and availability. For instance, cotton prices and availability vary from season to season depending upon the crop yields. The price of nylon and polyester is influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and costs, petroleum prices and the cost of polymers used in producing polyester. The - 15 - Index to Financial Statements Company attempts to pass along certain of these raw material price increases to its customers in order to protect its profit margins. Its success in so doing is dependent upon market dynamics present at the time of any price increases. The Company’s inability to pass on the effects of any such material price increases to its customers may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Decreased material or resource availability could impair the Company’s ability to meet its production requirements on a timely basis. Increases in prices of materials or the resources used in the production of products have historically not been able to be, and in the future may not be able to be, passed along to customers of the Company through increases in prices of the Company’s products. If any production delays occur, or if any increases in these prices cannot be passed along to the Company’s customers, it could have a potentially adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s automotive safety business unit is dependent on a small number of major yarn suppliers. The raw materials for the Company’s automotive safety fabric operations largely consist of synthetic yarns provided by Invista, Inc., Pharr Yarns, and PHP, among others. The primary yarns include nylon, polyester and Nomex. Invista and PHP are the leading suppliers of airbag fabric yarn to both the Company and the airbag cushion market generally. In particular, Invista supplies a majority of the nylon yarn used in the Company’s airbag fabric operations pursuant to purchase orders or releases on open purchase orders. The loss of Invista as a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is dependent on the success of, and its relationships with, its largest customers. The customer base of the Company’s automotive safety business is highly concentrated, and this division relies on key contractual relationships with several large Tier 1 suppliers. The most significant customers to this division, in alphabetical order, are Autoliv, Inc., Key Safety Systems, Inc., the Takata Group and TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. The loss of any key customer, its direction to a significant number of its contractors to purchase fabric from a producer other than the Company or a material slowdown in the business of one of the key customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company’s apparel and textile solutions business is dependent on the success of, and its relationships with, its largest customers. None of the Company’s customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total direct net sales in its 2006 fiscal year. However, the Company estimates that one large customer of the denim fabrics division (Levi Strauss & Co.) directly and indirectly accounted for approximately 12% of the Company’s net sales in the 2006 fiscal year. Levi Strauss is able to direct certain of its garment producers to purchase denim (or other fabric) directly from the Company for use in Levi Strauss products. Although Levi Strauss is not directly liable in any way for the payment by any of those contractors for fabric purchased, the Company believes that continued sales to these customers are dependent upon the Company maintaining a stronger supplier/customer relationship with Levi Strauss, as well as Levi Strauss’ continued success in the marketplace. Successful execution of the Company’s strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the Company obtaining financing at times, and on terms, deemed necessary by it. Successful execution of the Company’s strategy, and the related implementation of its international initiatives, will require the Company to obtain financing from external sources. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain this financing in amounts, at times and on terms acceptable to it, if at all. Any failure by the Company to obtain any necessary financing in amounts, at times and on terms acceptable to it, if at all, may delay, or make impossible to implement, the Company’s strategy, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. - 16 - Index to Financial Statements Execution of the Company’s strategy involves an increase in international operations. Significant international operations involve special risks that could increase expenses, adversely affect operating results and require increased time and attention of the Company’s management. The Company currently has significant operations outside of the United States. Additionally, the Company expects to further expand its international operations as part of its business strategy. International operations are subject to a number of risks in addition to those faced by domestic operations, including: • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of the Company’s intellectual property rights; • economic instability in certain countries or regions resulting in higher interest rates and inflation, which could make the Company’s products more expensive in those countries or raise the Company’s cost of operations in those countries; • changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade and investment abroad; • the possibility of the nationalization of foreign assets; • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if the Company does not invest sufficiently in its international operations; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • restrictions on transfers of funds, foreign customs and tariffs and other unexpected regulatory changes; • difficulties in staffing, managing and operating international operations; • difficulty in identifying desirable local partners for alliances or joint ventures and managing any such relationships; • obtaining project financing from third parties, which may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; and • political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which the Company will have facilities. A portion of the Company’s transactions outside of the United States are denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company expects that it will continue to purchase a portion of its raw materials from foreign suppliers in foreign currencies, and incur other expenses in those currencies. As a result, future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Although the Company may enter into hedging transactions, hedging foreign currency transaction exposures is complex and subject to uncertainty. The Company may be negatively affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of total sales. Financial statements of certain of the Company’s foreign operations are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency while certain other financial statements of these foreign operations will be prepared using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Translation of financial statements of foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the local currency as the functional currency occurs using the exchange rate as of the date of the balance sheet for balance sheet accounts and at a weighted average exchange rate for results of operations. The Company’s consolidated balance sheet and results of operations may be negatively impacted by changes in the exchange rates as of the applicable date of translation. For instance, a stronger U.S. dollar at an applicable date of translation will lead to less favorable translation results than a weaker U.S. dollar at that date. The Company’s international greenfield initiatives may not be completed in a timely manner, may not be completed at expected costs and may not produce expected benefits. The Company’s strategy includes the completion and operation of several international greenfield initiatives. The failure of one or more of these initiatives to be completed in a timely manner or at costs currently expected by management, or to produce sales in amounts and at times expected by management, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Changing international trade regulations and future qualitative limits, duties or tariffs may increase the Company’s costs or limit the amount of products that the Company can import from suppliers in a particular country. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, on textile products could limit the countries from which the Company produces or sources its products, restricting the availability of raw material and finished apparel sourcing by requiring yarn and/or fabric to be produced in certain countries or setting quantitative limits on products that may be imported from a particular country. These trade restrictions could have a particular impact on the Company’s business when, after the Company has moved its operations to a particular location, new unfavorable - 17 - Index to Financial Statements regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. The countries in which the Company’s products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose additional regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: • additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on World Trade Organization, or “WTO,” rules, and which would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in those countries; • quantitative limits on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country, including the imposition of further “safeguard” mechanisms by the U.S. Government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting the Company’s ability to import goods from particular countries, such as China; • changes in the classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than the Company has historically paid; • modification of the trading status of certain countries; • requirements as to where products are manufactured; • creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or • creation of other restrictions on imports. Adverse changes in trade regulations and the costs associated with such regulations could interrupt production in offshore facilities or delay receipt of the Company’s products in the United States and other markets, which would harm its business. Furthermore, future trade agreements could provide the Company’s competitors with an advantage over it or increase the Company’s costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The Company’s products may be subject to government regulation in the future that could impair its operations. Certain of the Company’s products could be subject to stringent government regulation in the United States and other countries in the future. These regulatory processes can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Additionally, securing necessary clearances or approvals may require the submission of extensive data and other supporting information. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in fines, recall, total or partial suspension of distribution, withdrawal of existing product or the inability to integrate product offerings. If any of these things occur, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Military hostilities have resulted in lower sales of government military dress uniforms. Any future actions by the U.S. Government which result in the shifting of spending or reductions in the U.S. military’s budget may further negatively impact sales of the Company’s military dress uniform and battle dress business. Military hostilities and war-related priorities have shifted U.S. military funds away from the Company’s profitable dress uniform business. Given a trend among military personnel to dress in battle or camouflage uniforms on a daily basis, the business may decline further or may not recover to its historical levels of sales or profitability. In addition, any future action by the U.S. Government which results in U.S. military spending being shifted away from spending on military dress uniforms, or an overall reduction of the military’s budget, may further negatively impact the Company’s sales of military dress uniform and battle dress uniform fabric. The Company faces risks from changes in U.S. Government policies that would be unfavorable to domestic manufacturers. The Berry Amendment currently requires that the U.S. Department of Defense purchase certain products, including military clothing, manufactured with 100% U.S. content and labor. The Company relies on this requirement to profitably provide government uniforms and fabrics. If the government was to remove or reduce this domestic production requirement, the Company’s sales and profit levels would be adversely affected. - 18 - Index to Financial Statements If the Company does not protect its proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of its products and technology, its financial results could be harmed. The Company relies on a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect its proprietary information. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Third parties may copy aspects of processes, products or materials, or otherwise obtain and use proprietary information of the Company without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently, including by designing around patents of the Company. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of the Company’s proprietary rights as the laws of the U. S., and the Company may be subject to unauthorized use of its products in those countries. Any legal action that the Company may bring to protect proprietary information could be expensive and may distract management from day-to-day operations. Unauthorized copying or use of products or proprietary information of the Company could result in reduced sales of its products. The Company has assumed the defined benefit pension plan of Burlington Industries, which will require substantial funding over the next several years. This required funding will reduce funds available for the execution of the Company’s strategic expansion. The Company’s Burlington Industries subsidiary has a frozen defined benefit plan which is underfunded. This plan has a provision that allows individuals to receive their pension benefits in a lump sum payment when they leave the employment of the Company. Any material downsizing of the Company’s domestic workforce covered by this plan would likely result in the requirement for significant cash payouts from the plan, increase the funding deficit, and require funding from the Company, thereby reducing funds available for use in the execution of the Company’s strategy. Changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain materials, substances and wastes; the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; and the health and safety of employees. Future events, such as new information, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, or more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, may give rise to expenditures or liabilities that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company continues to focus on the integration of the business and operations SCI and Former ITG, as well as integration of the operations of BST. If the Company fails to effectively integrate these operations, the Company may not realize the potential benefits of any of these transactions. The integration of SCI and Former ITG has been a time consuming and expensive process. The Company expects that the integration of BST into its operations will also be time consuming and expensive. Integration efforts may disrupt the Company’s operations if they are not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If these integration efforts are not successful, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits of any of these transactions. The success of the Company will depend on the abilities of its senior management team, as well as the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the abilities of its management team. The management team must be able to effectively work together to successfully conduct the Company’s current operations, as well as implement the Company’s strategy, which includes significant international expansion. If they are unable to do so, the results of operations and financial condition of the Company may suffer. In addition, as part of the Company’s strategy of international expansion, there is great competition for the services of qualified personnel. The failure to retain current key managers or key members of the design, product development, manufacturing, merchandising or marketing staff, or to hire additional qualified personnel for new operations could be detrimental to the Company’s business. - 19 - Index to Financial Statements Anti-takeover provisions contained in the Company’s governance documents, and Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult for the Company’s stockholders to replace or remove the Company’s board of directors and could deter or delay third-parties from acquiring the Company, which may adversely affect the marketability and market price of the Company’s common stock. Provisions contained in the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Company’s board of directors in any one year, and thus prevent them from changing the composition of management. These same provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by management and the board of directors of the Company. In addition, the Company may, in the future, be subject to certain provisions of Delaware corporate law that may prevent certain stockholders from engaging in a business combination with the Company. Stockholders who might desire to participate in this type of transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change the Company’s management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of the Company’s stock. There may be circumstances in which the interests of the Company’s significant stockholders could be in conflict with your interests as a stockholder. Affiliates of WLR own approximately 87% of Company’s total voting stock on a fully diluted basis. Also, affiliates of WLR hold seven of the nine positions on the Company’s board of directors. Circumstances may arise in which affiliates of WLR or other major investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in the Company or another company in which they invest. In connection with any such transaction involving the Company, WLR could have interests that might conflict with, be different from, or be in addition to, the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. In addition, the Company may from time to time engage in transactions with related parties and affiliates that include, among other things, management and consulting arrangements. - 20 - Index to Financial Statements 