Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions. The current global economic downturn could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The decline in economic conditions may negatively impact the demand for our products and services and our ability to conduct our business thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. The economic downturn may have negatively impacted, among other things: •our continued growth and development of our business; •our liquidity; •our ability to raise capital and obtain financing; and •the price of our common stock. We have a history of net losses and expect net losses will continue. If we continue to operate at a loss our business will not be financially viable. We have experienced significant losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception. We have not realized a net operating profit in any quarter since we began our operations. Wave's revenue in 2010 was less than operating expenses as our products have not yet attained widespread commercial acceptance. This is due in part to the early stage nature of the digital security industry in which we operate. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $352.2 million and positive working capital of approximately $2.6 million. Given the lack of widespread adoption of the technology for our products and services, there is little basis for evaluating the financial viability of our business and our long-term prospects. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties that companies in their early stage of development encounter, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as digital security and online commerce. To achieve profitability we must, among other things: •Continue to convince chip, personal computer motherboard, personal computer and computer peripheral manufacturers to license and distribute our products and services and/or make them available to their customers through their sales channels; •Convince computer end users and enterprise computer users to purchase our upgrade software and server products for trusted computing: •Convince consumers to choose to order, purchase and accept products using our products and services; •Continue to maintain the necessary resources, especially talented software programmers; •Continue to develop relationships with personal computer manufacturers, computer chip manufacturers and computer systems integrators to facilitate and to maximize acceptance of our products and services; and •Generate substantial revenue, complete one or more commercial or strategic transactions or raise additional capital to support our operations until we can generate sufficient revenues and cash flows. If we do not succeed in these objectives we will not generate revenues and our business will not be sustainable. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to raise or generate the additional financing or cash flow which will be necessary to continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. Since we began our operations we have incurred net losses and experienced significant negative cash flow from operations. This is due to the early stage nature of market development for our products and services and the digital security industry as a whole. Wave expects to continue to incur substantial additional expenses associated with continued research and development and business development activities that will be necessary to commercialize our technology. We may be unable to raise or generate the additional financing or cash flow which will be necessary to continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. In addition to our efforts to generate revenue sufficient to fund our operations, or complete one or more commercial or strategic transactions, Wave may evaluate additional financing options to generate additional capital in order to continue as a going concern, to capitalize on business opportunities and market conditions and to insure the continued development of our technology, products and services. We do not know if additional financing will be available or that, if available, it will be available on favorable terms. If we issue additional shares of our stock our stockholders' ownership will be diluted and the shares issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. In addition, if we pursue debt financing we may be required to pay interest costs. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our forecasted expenditures would require us to reduce our cash burn rate which would in turn impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Even if we are successful in raising additional capital, uncertainty with respect to Wave's viability will continue until we are successful in achieving our objectives. Furthermore, although we may be successful at achieving our business objectives, a positive cash flow from operations may not ultimately be realized unless we are able to sell our products and services at a profit. Given the early stage nature of the markets for our products and services considerable uncertainty exists as to whether or not Wave's business model is viable. If we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow or obtaining additional funding we may be unable to continue our operations, develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or continue as a going concern. A single customer accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and, therefore, the loss of that customer may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We have one customer that accounted for approximately 80% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. If our relationship with any of our significant customers were disrupted we could lose a significant portion of our anticipated revenues which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Factors that could influence our relationships with our customers include, among other things: •our ability to sell our products at prices that are competitive with our competitors; •our ability to maintain features and quality standards for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our customers; and •our ability to produce and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet our customers' requirements. 15 Table of Contents If our OEM customers fail to purchase our components or to sell sufficient quantities of their products incorporating our components or if our OEM customers' sales timing and volume fluctuates, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales to a relatively small number of OEM customers, as opposed to direct retail sales to end customers, comprise a large portion of our revenues. For example, we have one customer that accounted for approximately 80% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our ability to make sales to OEM customers depends on our ability to compete on price, delivery and quality. The timing and volume of these sales depend upon the sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our OEM customers incorporate our products. Thus, even if we develop a successful component, our sales will not increase unless the product into which our component is incorporated is successful. If our OEM customers decide not to incorporate our products as components of their products or fail to sell a sufficient quantity of products incorporating our components or if the OEM customers' sales timing and volume fluctuate, it may lead to a reduction in our sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our market is in the early stage of development so we are unable to accurately ascertain the size and growth potential for revenue in such a market. The market for our products and services is still developing and is continually evolving. As a result, substantial uncertainty exists with respect to the size of the market for these products and the level of capital that will be required to meet the evolving technical requirements of the marketplace. Wave's business model relies on an assumed market of tens of millions of units shipping with built-in security hardware and for Wave to be successful selling its version of client and server software products to the users of such units. Because this market remains in the early stage of development there is significant uncertainty with respect to the validity of the future size of the market. If the market for computer systems that utilize our products and services does not grow to the extent necessary for us to realize our business plan, we may not be successful. As this early stage market develops and evolves, significant capital will likely be required to fund the resources needed to meet the changing technological demands of the marketplace. There is uncertainty with respect to the level of capital that may be required to meet these changing technological demands. If the amount of capital resources needed exceeds our ability to obtain such capital, we may not be a viable enterprise. Wave is not established in the industry so we may not be accepted as a supplier or service provider to the market. Wave's offering represents a highly complex architecture designed to solve many of the security issues currently present with computer systems such as identity theft, fraudulent transactions, virus attacks, unauthorized access to restricted networks and other security problems that users of computer systems generally encounter. We are uncertain as to whether the marketplace will accept our solution to these security problems. We will not be successful if the market does not accept the value proposition that we perceive to be present in our products and services. Although Wave has expended considerable resources in developing technology and products that utilize our technology and in business development activities in an attempt to drive the development of the hardware security market, we do not have a track record as a substantial supplier or service provider to consumers of computer systems. Therefore, uncertainty remains as to whether we will be accepted as a supplier to the enterprise and consumer markets which will likely be necessary for us to be a successful commercial enterprise. 16 Table of Contents Our products have not been accepted as industry standards which may slow their sales growth. We believe platforms adopting integrated hardware security into the PC will become a significant standard feature in the overall PC marketplace. However, our technologies have not been accepted as industry standards. Standards for trusted computing are still evolving. To be successful we must obtain acceptance of our technologies as industry standards, modify our products and services to meet whatever industry standards ultimately develop and/or adapt our products to be complementary to whatever these standards become. If we fail to do any of these we will not be successful in commercializing our technology; and therefore, we will not generate sales to fund our operations and develop into a self-sustaining, profitable business. If we do not keep up with technological changes our product development and business growth will suffer. Because the market in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology, changes in customer requirements, frequent new products, service introductions and enhancements and emerging industry standards, our success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to improve our products, develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, maintain our products compatibility with changing computer system platforms, respond to evolving customer requirements and achieve market acceptance on a timely and cost effective basis. If we do not identify, develop, manufacture, market and support new products and deploy new services effectively and timely our business will not grow, our financial results will suffer and we may not have the ability to remain in business. We are subject to risks relating to potential security breaches of our software products. Although we have implemented in our products various security mechanisms, our products and services may nevertheless be vulnerable to break-ins, piracy and similar disruptive problems caused by Internet users. Any of these disruptions would harm our business. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect products and information in electronic form. Computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer systems of users of our products which may result in significant liability to us and may also deter potential customers. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary electronic content or cause interruptions in our operations and those of our strategic partners. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Our attempts to implement contracts that limit our liability to our customers, including liability arising from a failure of security features contained in our products and services, may not be enforceable. We currently do not have product liability insurance to protect against these risks. Competition and competing technologies may render some or all of our products non-competitive or obsolete. An increasing number of market entrants have introduced or are developing products and services that compete with Wave's. Our competitors may be able to develop products and services that are more attractive to customers than our products and services. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Also, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and larger customer bases that could be leveraged to enable them to gain market share or product acceptance to our detriment. Wave's potential competitors include security solutions providers such as RSA Security, Inc. (a division of EMC), Symantec, Computer Associates, Verisign, Inc., Entrust, Inc., Utimaco (acquired by Sophos), 17 Table of Contents PGP (acquired by Symantec), Credant, SafeBoot (acquired by McAfee), SafeNet, WinMagic, Secude (acquired by SAP) and GuardianEdge (acquired by Symantec) and major systems integrators such as IBM, HP and EDS. In addition, Wave competes with other client security applications companies that are developing trusted computing applications including Softex Incorporated, Phoenix Technologies Ltd., Infineon Technologies AG and Microsoft. Other companies have developed or are developing technologies that are, or may become, the basis for competitive products in the field of security and electronic content distribution. Some of those technologies may have an approach or means of processing that is entirely different from ours. Existing or new competitors may develop products that are superior to ours or that otherwise achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Due to Wave's early stage and lower relative name recognition compared to many of our competitors and potential competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace is vulnerable. We have a high dependence on relationships with strategic partners that must continue or our ability to successfully produce and market our products will be impaired. Due in large part to Wave's early stage and lower name recognition we depend upon strategic partners such as large, well established personal computer and semiconductor manufacturers and computer systems' integrators to adopt our products and services within the Trusted Computing marketplace. These companies may choose not to use our products and could develop or market products or technologies that compete directly with us. We cannot predict whether these third parties will commit the resources necessary to achieve broad-based commercial acceptance of our technology. Any delay in the use of our technology by these partners could impede or prohibit the commercial acceptance of our products. Although we have established some binding commitments from some of our strategic partners there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into additional definitive agreements or that the terms of such agreements will be satisfactory. It will be necessary for Wave to expand upon our current business relationships with our partners, or form new ones, in order to sell more products and services for Wave to become a viable, self-sufficient enterprise. Product defects or development delays may limit our ability to sell our products. We may experience delays in the development of our new products and services and the added features and functionality to our existing products and services that our customers and prospective customers are demanding. If we are unable to successfully develop products that contain the features and functionality being demanded by these customers and prospective customers in a timely manner, we may lose business to our competitors. In addition, despite testing by us and potential customers, it is possible that our products may nevertheless contain defects. Development delays or defects could have a material adverse effect on our business if such defects and delays result in our inability to meet the market's demand. If we lose our key personnel, or fail to attract and retain additional personnel, we will be unable to continue to develop our products and technology. We believe that our future success depends upon the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Our industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire any additional personnel necessary for our growth. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future and the failure of us to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights and others could infringe on or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to enjoy or obtain protection for our products and technologies under United States and foreign patent laws, copyright laws and other intellectual property laws and to preserve our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that any patent owned or licensed by us will provide us with adequate protection or will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented. We rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which we protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and contract partners. However, our confidentiality agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for these breaches. Our trade secrets may become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We also rely on intellectual property laws to prevent the unauthorized duplication of our software and hardware products. However, intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our technology. We have registered various trademark and service mark registrations with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Wave may apply for additional name and logo marks in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in the future but we cannot assure you that registration of any of these trademarks will be granted. Regulation of international transactions may limit our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. Most of our software products are controlled under various United States export control laws and regulations and may require export licenses for certain exports of the products and components outside of the United States and Canada. With respect to our EMBASSY Trust Suite and EMBASSY Trust Server software applications, we have applied for and received export classifications that allow us to export our products without a license and with no restrictions to any country throughout the world with the exception of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. Any new product offerings will be subject to review by the Bureau of Export Administration to determine what export classification they will receive. Enhancements to existing products may be subject to review by the Bureau of Export Administration to determine their export classification. Some of our partners demand that our products be allowed to be exported without restrictions and/or reporting requirements. Current export regulations have, in part, allowed us to receive the desired classification without undue cost or effort. However, the export regulations may be modified at any time. Currently we are allowed to export the products for which we have received classification in an unrestricted manner without a license. However, modifications to the export regulations could prevent us from exporting our existing and future products in an unrestricted manner without a license. Such modifications could also make it difficult to receive the desired classification. If export regulations were to be modified in such a way, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage with respect to selling our products internationally. In addition, import and export regulations of encryption/decryption technology vary from country to country. We may be subject to different statutory or regulatory controls in different foreign jurisdictions, and as such, our technology may not be permitted in these foreign jurisdictions. Violations of foreign regulations or regulation of international transactions could prevent us from being able to sell our products in international markets. Our success depends in large part to having access to international markets. A violation of foreign regulations could limit our access to such markets and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. The price of our Class A Common Stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors such as: •quarterly variations in operating results; •announcements of technological innovations, new products, acquisitions, capital commitments or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and •news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for technology-related companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and any of our other securities for which a market develops regardless of our operating performance. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that have experienced periods of volatility in the market price for their securities. It is possible that we could become the target of litigation of this kind that would require substantial management attention and expense. The diversion of management's attention and capital resources could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, any negative publicity or perceived negative publicity of any such litigation could have an adverse impact on our business. We may be subject to conflicts of interest that could adversely slow our corporate governance process. Our current Board of Directors does not include any representatives of our strategic partners. However, our Board of Directors has included in the past and may include in the future, representatives of our strategic partners. It is possible that those corporations may be competing against us, or each other, directly or indirectly. A director who also represents another company may voluntarily abstain from voting on matters where there could be conflicts of interest. Even if such a director does abstain, his presence on the Board could affect the process or the results of the Board's deliberations. We have adopted no policies or procedures to reduce or avoid such conflicts. If such conflicts of interest arise they may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Governmental regulation may slow our growth and decrease our profitability. There are relatively few laws or regulations that apply directly to the Internet. Because our business is dependent, in significant respect, on the Internet, the adoption of new local, state, national or international laws or regulations may decrease the growth of Internet usage or the acceptance of Internet commerce which could decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Tax authorities in a number of states are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales, use and income taxes. If we make any acquisitions we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available we may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we do undertake any transaction of this sort the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention 20 Table of Contents that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market it may harm our stock price and make it more difficult to sell shares. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain our NASDAQ listing NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) requires that the bid price for our common stock not fall below $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive trading days. Because of the volatility in our common stock price there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with this requirement. If our minimum bid price remains below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, under the current NASDAQ Capital Market rules, we will have a period of 180 days to attain compliance by meeting the minimum bid price requirement for 10 consecutive days during the compliance period. In the event that we do not regain compliance during such 180 day period we would be entitled to an additional 180 day compliance period if we meet the other initial listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market at the end of such initial 180 day period. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market we expect that our common stock would be traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTC-BB). The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market for any reason it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price and make it more difficult to sell your shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 