ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify and respond to fashion trends in a timely manner. The specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in the economy and customer preferences, dictated by fashion and season. These fluctuations especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers because merchandise typically must be ordered well in advance of the selling season. While we endeavor to test many merchandise items before ordering large quantities, we are still susceptible to changing fashion trends and fluctuations in customer demands. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires that we carry a significant amount of inventory, especially during our peak selling seasons. We enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of our private label apparel well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. The failure to enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise in a timely manner could, among other things, lead to a shortage of inventory and lower sales. Changes in fashion trends, if unsuccessfully identified, forecasted or responded to by us, could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The effect of competitive pressures from other retailers and other business factors The specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, fashion, service, selection and price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in the future. The success of our operations also depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, consumer debt, interest rates and consumer confidence. There can be no assurance that consumer 8 Table of Contents spending will not be negatively affected by general or local economic conditions, thereby adversely impacting our continued growth and results of operations. Our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. During Fiscal 2008, we plan to open approximately 40 new American Eagle stores in the U.S. and Canada, approximately 80 aerie stand-alone stores and approximately 15 MARTIN + OSA stores. Additionally, we plan to remodel or expand approximately 40 to 50 existing American Eagle stores during Fiscal 2008. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level, the integration of new stores into existing operations and the expansion of our buying and inventory capabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new and remodeled stores profitably. Our ability to grow through the internal development of new brands We launched our new brand concepts, MARTIN + OSA and aerie by American Eagle, during Fiscal 2006. Additionally, in January 2008, we announced the planned launch of 77kids. Our ability to succeed in these new brands requires significant expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new brand is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers, and the ability to obtain suitable sites for new stores at acceptable costs. There can be no assurance that these new brands will grow or become profitable. If we are unable to succeed in developing profitable new brands, this could adversely impact our continued growth and results of operations. Our international merchandise sourcing strategy Substantially all of our merchandise is purchased from foreign suppliers. Although we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise through a single foreign buying agent, we do not maintain any exclusive commitments to purchase from any vendor. Since we rely on a small number of foreign sources for a significant portion of our purchases, any event causing the disruption of imports, including the insolvency of a significant supplier or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Other events that could also cause a disruption of imports include the imposition of additional trade law provisions or import restrictions, such as increased duties, tariffs, anti-dumping provisions, increased Custom’s enforcement actions, or political or economic disruptions. We have a Vendor Code of Conduct that provides guidelines for all of our vendors regarding working conditions, employment practices and compliance with local laws. A copy of the Vendor Code of Conduct is posted on our website, www.ae.com. We have a factory compliance program to audit for compliance with the Vendor Code of Conduct. However, there can be no assurance that our factory compliance program will be effective in discovering violations. Publicity regarding violation of our Vendor Code of Conduct or other social responsibility standards by any of our vendor factories could adversely affect our sales and financial performance. We believe that there is a risk of terrorist activity on a global basis, and such activity might take the form of a physical act that impedes the flow of imported goods or the insertion of a harmful or injurious agent to an imported shipment. We have instituted policies and procedures designed to reduce the chance or impact of such actions including, but not limited to, a significant increase in the number of factory audits performed; a strengthening of our factory audit protocol to include all critical security issues; the review of security procedures of our other international trading partners, including forwarders, consolidators, shippers and brokers; and the cancellation of agreements with entities who fail to meet our security requirements. In addition, U.S. Customs has recognized us as a validated, tier three member of the Customs — Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program, a voluntary program in which an importer agrees to work with Customs to strengthen overall supply chain security. However, 9 Table of Contents there can be no assurance that terrorist activity can be prevented and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such activities or the extent of their adverse impact on our operations. Seasonality Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a large portion of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, reflecting increased demand during the year-end holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third quarter, reflecting increased demand during the back-to-school selling season. During Fiscal 2007, the third and fourth fiscal quarters accounted for approximately 57% of our sales and approximately 60% of our net income. As a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. Our reliance on key personnel Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our key personnel, including senior management, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel and skilled employees in the future. Our operations could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more key executive officers ceased to be active in our management. Our ability to successfully complete important infrastructure projects We implemented multiple infrastructure projects in Fiscal 2007 and will continue to implement new projects in Fiscal 2008. The major projects in Fiscal 2008 include: • the construction and integration of the second phase of our new corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; • the second phase of expansion at our Ottawa, Kansas distribution center, as well as the integration of the facility; • the construction and integration of our new Canadian distribution center; and • the installation of a new point of sale system in all of our stores. We rely upon our facilities and information systems to support the management of our operations. Any delays or difficulties in these important projects could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our reliance on third-party distribution services for our Canadian stores Our stores in Canada receive merchandise through logistics services provided under a transitional services agreement with the NLS Purchaser, which will expire in July 2008. Any significant interruption in the logistics services provided by the NLS Purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our stores in Canada and on our financial condition and results. During Fiscal 2007, we entered into a lease of a 294,000 square foot building to house our Canadian distribution center, which we plan to place into service in May 2008. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements As a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC and the NYSE. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents Negative conditions in global credit markets may impair our auction rate securities portfolio. Auction rate securities (“ARS”) are long-term debt instruments with interest rates reset through periodic short-term auctions. Holders of ARS can either sell into the auction or bid based on a desired interest rate or hold and accept the reset rate. If there are insufficient buyers, then the auction fails and holders are unable to liquidate their investment through the auction. A failed auction is not a default of the debt instrument, but does set a new interest rate in accordance with the original terms of the debt instrument. The result of a failed auction is that the ARS continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms; however, liquidity for holders is limited until there is a successful auction or until such time as another market for ARS develops. ARS are generally callable at any time by the issuer. Auctions continue to be held as scheduled until the ARS matures or until it is called. As a result of the recent conditions in the global credit markets, we have been unable to liquidate our holdings of certain ARS because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities and the auctions failed. For failed auctions, we continue to earn interest on these investments at the contractual rate. In the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the securities, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the securities mature. If these ARS are unable to successfully clear at future auctions or issuers do not redeem the securities, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. If we determine that the fair value of these ARS is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment within other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, it may become necessary to classify failed ARS holdings as long-term investments in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in future periods. As of February 2, 2008, we had approximately $418 million of investments in ARS. See Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on a subsequent event related to our auction rate securities. Other risk factors Additionally, other factors could adversely affect our financial performance, including factors such as: our ability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses; any interruption of our key business systems; any disaster or casualty resulting in the interruption of service from our distribution centers or in a large number of our stores; any interruption of key services provided by third party vendors; any interruption of our business related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in a country where we source or market our merchandise; changes in weather patterns; the effects of changes in current exchange rates and interest rates; and international and domestic acts of terror. The impact of any of the previously discussed factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results in these statements and other forward-looking statements we may make from time-to-time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 