ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify and respond to fashion trends in a timely manner. The specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in the economy and customer preferences, dictated by fashion and season. These fluctuations especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers because merchandise typically must be ordered well in advance of the selling season. While we endeavor to test many merchandise items before ordering large quantities, we are still susceptible to changing fashion trends and fluctuations in customer demands. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires that we carry a significant amount of inventory, especially during our peak selling seasons. We enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of our private label apparel well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. The failure to enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise in a timely manner could, among other things, lead to a shortage of inventory and lower sales. Changes in fashion trends, if unsuccessfully identified, forecasted or responded to by us, could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The effect of economic pressures and other business factors The global economic crisis that began during the second half of 2008 continues to cause uncertainty and a wide-ranging lack of liquidity in the credit markets. This market uncertainty continues to result in a lack of consumer confidence and spending. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, consumer debt, interest rates, increases in energy costs and consumer confidence. There can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be further negatively affected by general or local economic conditions, thereby adversely impacting our continued growth and results of operations. Our ability to react to raw material cost increases, labor and energy prices Increases in our costs, such as raw materials, labor and fuel, may reduce our overall profitability. Specifically, fluctuations in the price of cotton that is used in the manufacture of merchandise we purchase from our suppliers have begun to negatively impact our cost of sales. We have strategies in place to mitigate the rising cost of raw materials and our overall profitability depends on the success of those strategies. Additionally, increases in other costs, including labor and energy, could further reduce our profitability if not mitigated. Our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. During Fiscal 2011, we plan to open 14 new American Eagle stores in the U.S. and Canada, 10 aerie stand-alone stores and 12 77kids stores. Additionally, we plan to remodel or expand between 55 and 75 existing American Eagle stores during Fiscal 2011. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to obtain suitable sites 9 Table of Contents for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level, the integration of new stores into existing operations and the expansion of our buying and inventory capabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new and remodeled stores profitably. Our ability to achieve planned store financial performance The results achieved by our stores may not be indicative of long-term performance or the potential performance of stores in other locations. The failure of stores to achieve acceptable results could result in store asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our continued growth and results of operations. Our ability to grow through the internal development of new brands We launched our new brand concepts, aerie and 77kids, during Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2008, respectively. Our ability to succeed in these new brands requires significant expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new brand is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers, and the ability to obtain suitable sites for new stores at acceptable costs. There can be no assurance that these new brands will grow or become profitable. If we are unable to succeed in developing profitable new brands, this could adversely impact our continued growth and results of operations. Our international merchandise sourcing strategy Substantially all of our merchandise is purchased from foreign suppliers. Although we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise through a single foreign buying agent, we do not maintain any exclusive commitments to purchase from any vendor. Since we rely on a small number of foreign sources for a significant portion of our purchases, any event causing the disruption of imports, including the insolvency of a significant supplier or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Other events that could also cause a disruption of imports include the imposition of additional trade law provisions or import restrictions, such as increased duties, tariffs, anti-dumping provisions, increased CBP enforcement actions, or political or economic disruptions. We have a Vendor Code of Conduct (the “Code”) that provides guidelines for all of our vendors regarding working conditions, employment practices and compliance with local laws. A copy of the Code is posted on our website, www.ae.com, and is also included in our vendor manual in English and multiple other languages. We have a factory compliance program to audit for compliance with the Code. However, there can be no assurance that our factory compliance program will be fully effective in discovering all violations. Publicity regarding violation of our Code or other social responsibility standards by any of our vendor factories could adversely affect our sales and financial performance. We believe that there is a risk of terrorist activity on a global basis, and such activity might take the form of a physical act that impedes the flow of imported goods or the insertion of a harmful or injurious agent to an imported shipment. We have instituted policies and procedures designed to reduce the chance or impact of such actions including, but not limited to, factory audits and self-assessments, including audit protocols on all critical security issues; the review of security procedures of our other international trading partners, including forwarders, consolidators, shippers and brokers; and the cancellation of agreements with entities who fail to meet our security requirements. In addition, the United States CBP has recognized us as a validated, tier three member of the Customs — Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program, a voluntary program in which an importer agrees to work with customs to strengthen overall supply chain security. However, there can be no assurance that terrorist activity can be prevented entirely and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such activities or the extent of their adverse impact on our operations. 10 Table of Contents Our reliance on external vendors Given the volatility and risk in the current markets, our reliance on external vendors leaves us subject to certain risks should one or more of these external vendors become insolvent. Although we monitor the financial stability of our key vendors and plan for contingencies, the financial failure of a key vendor could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Seasonality Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a large portion of net sales and operating income occurring in the third and fourth fiscal quarter, reflecting increased demand during the back-to-school and year-end holiday selling seasons, respectively. As a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. Our reliance on our ability to implement and sustain information technology systems We regularly evaluate our information technology systems and are currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions. We believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our reliance on key personnel Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our key personnel, including senior management, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel and skilled employees in the future. Our operations could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more key executive officers ceased to be active in our management. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements As a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC and the NYSE. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. Our ability to obtain and/or maintain our credit facilities We believe that we have sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our operating requirements. In addition, the banks participating in our various credit facilities are currently rated as investment grade, and all of the amounts under the credit facilities are currently available to us. We draw on our credit facilities to increase our cash position to add financial flexibility. Although we expect to continue to generate positive cash flow despite the current economy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully generate positive cash flow in the future. Continued negative trends in the credit markets and/or continued financial institution failures could lead to lowered credit availability as well as difficulty in obtaining financing. In the event of limitations on our access to credit facilities, our liquidity, continued growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our efforts to expand internationally through franchising We have entered into franchise agreements with multiple franchisees to open and operate stores throughout the Middle East, Northern Africa, Eastern Europe, Hong Kong, China, Macau, Israel and Japan over the next several years. While the franchise arrangements do not involve a capital investment from us and require minimal operational involvement, the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally. Furthermore, although we provide store operation training, literature and support, to the extent that the franchisee does not operate its stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand and customer experience standards, the value of our brand could be negatively impacted. A failure to protect the value of our brand or any other adverse actions by a franchisee could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. Other risk factors Additionally, other factors could adversely affect our financial performance, including factors such as: our ability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses; any interruption of our key infrastructure systems; any disaster or casualty resulting in the interruption of service from our distribution centers or in a large number of our stores; any interruption of our business related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in a country where we source or market our merchandise; changes in weather patterns; the effects of changes in current exchange rates and interest rates; and international and domestic acts of terror. The impact of any of the previously discussed factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results in these statements and other forward-looking statements we may make from time-to-time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 