ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Future Profitability, Our Financial Results and Need For Financing Because we have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain, our common stock is a speculative investment. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and, as of December 31, 2009, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $93.38 million. We expect to spend substantial funds to continue research and product testing, to maintain sales, to perform clinical trials, for marketing, quality control, regulatory, manufacturing and administrative capabilities and for other general corporate purposes. We expect to continue to incur operating losses in 2010 as we seek to execute on our business plan, including continuing to establish sales and marketing capabilities and conducting research and development activities. We may never become profitable. If we do become profitable, we may not remain profitable on a continuing basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital and expand, diversify or continue our operations. We will continue to need additional funds, and if additional capital is not available, we may have to limit or scale back our operations. We believe that our existing cash and other working capital, together with anticipated proceeds from sales of our products, will be sufficient to fund our currently planned operating and capital requirements through at least the next twelve months. Our currently planned operating and capital requirements primarily include the need for working capital to: •produce and manufacture our products; •support our sales and marketing efforts for our Embosphere Microsphere products for UFE and other indications, as well as our other products for sale; •support our QuadraSphere Microspheres clinical trial, if we commence such trial; •support our ongoing research and development activities; and •fund our general and administrative costs and expenses. However, our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned due to a number of factors, including, without limitation: •unanticipated changes in the amount of revenue we generate from sales of our products, in particular from sales of our Embosphere Microspheres for UFE; •an adverse judgment in a product liability lawsuit which could materially adversely affect market acceptance of our products, and, if not covered by our product liability insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity; •unplanned costs associated with our QuadraSphere Microspheres clinical trial, if we commence such trial; 22 Table of Contents •costs resulting from changes in our research and development, regulatory and marketing strategies; •competitive advances that make it harder for us to market and sell our products; •the timing and cost of regulatory approvals and clearances; and •adverse global market and economic conditions. We may also need additional funds for possible strategic acquisitions of synergistic businesses, products and/or technologies. We will require substantial additional cash to fund our planned, and any unplanned, expenses. If adequate funds are not available, we could be required to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research, development, sales and marketing initiatives, reduce our workforce, and license to others or divest products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves. We may seek additional funding through a combination of collaborative arrangements, debt financing or the sale of additional equity securities. We may not receive such additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. Any sales of equity or debt securities are likely to dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders, and the new securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our capital stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, then our stock price may decline. Our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may be due to a number of factors, including: •inflation and adverse global economic conditions, which may affect the rate of UFE procedures and the sales of our products; •the timing and volume of customer orders for our products; •introduction or announcement of competitive products; •regulatory approvals or clearances; •product recalls; •product liability claims against our products, including any adverse judgments; •turnover in our direct sales force; •the timing and amount of expenses; •timing of orders by our distributors; •the effectiveness of new marketing and sales programs; •exchange rate fluctuations; and •liquidity constraints and losses in our invested cash due to the current adverse conditions in the global capital markets. In addition, a large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if our revenue declines or does not grow as much as we anticipate, we might not be able to improve our operating margins. Failure to achieve anticipated levels 23 Table of Contents of revenue could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to these fluctuations, our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of our investors and our stock price may decline as a result. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in the past year, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. The global economic crisis could adversely affect sales of our products. For example, worldwide product revenue from sales of our microspheres for use in interventional gynecology for UFE procedures declined in part due to current economic conditions, including the high rate of unemployment, which we believe reduced the demand for elective procedures and the use of our products. We may experience declines in revenue in 2010 and beyond as a result of these factors. Also, if the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals. At December 31, 2009, we had $18.09 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities consisting of corporate, bank, federal agency, mortgage-backed and government obligations. We are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or marketable securities since December 31, 2009, but no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. There is also a possibility that our stock price may decline because of the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure, as well as potential new accounting pronouncements, could impact our future financial position and results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules, could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. In addition, future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and may occur again in the future, and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the 24 Table of Contents activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation might be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and tour stock price. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal controls, and will require attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls by our independent registered public accounting firm beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. This process could require us to implement significant measures to improve our internal controls, may require us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services, and will result in significant accounting and legal expenses. Any failure by us to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Changes to our performance in each jurisdiction in which we operate, resulting from either changes in our business or as a result of routine tax audits, could materially impact our deferred tax assets or could materially impact our future financial position or results of operations. We use the asset and liability accounting method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using current statutory tax rates in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. A valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets is recorded if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Due to the size of our net operating loss carryforward in relation to our history of unprofitable operations, we have not recognized any of our net deferred tax assets. However, future improvements in operational performance in any tax jurisdiction in which we operate, while not guaranteed, could result in increased certainty of our ability to apply deferred tax assets against taxable income, which could, in turn, result in a significant impact on the value of our deferred tax assets and reported operating results. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Strategy A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales of our Embosphere Microspheres for UFE, and if we do not successfully commercialize and achieve widespread market acceptance of our Embosphere Microspheres for UFE, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price will decline. The majority of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 was derived from the sale of Embosphere Microspheres for use in UFE. Our principal business focus is to grow our embolotherapy business through increases in the utilization rate for UFE procedures versus other procedures to treat uterine fibroids and in the employment by medical providers of our Embosphere Microspheres in such procedures in lieu of competing products. We began marketing and selling Embosphere Microspheres for UFE in 2002, but to date we have not achieved widespread market acceptance of UFE as an alternative to other procedures, including hysterectomy. Our ability to grow our product revenue is substantially dependent upon growth in UFE procedures and our ability to achieve widespread acceptance of the use of Embosphere Microspheres for use in UFE procedures. If growth in UFE procedures does not occur; and if we do not achieve such market acceptance, our product revenue and our prospects for profitability and success will be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We face a number of significant risks relating to our ability to successfully commercialize Embosphere Microspheres for use in UFE, including risks relating to: •our ability to successfully market and sell Embosphere Microspheres for use in UFE with our limited sales force; •the success of our sales and marketing strategies for Embosphere Microspheres for use in UFE, including, but not limited to, our ask4UFE and consumer health talk, or CHT, campaigns and other public relations campaigns, in which we are seeking to increase awareness among patients, referring physicians, interventional radiologists and third-party payors of UFE as an alternative treatment for fibroids; •the unknown future impact that Health Care Reform and other measures may have on our ability to educate patients about fibroids and treatment options on behalf of or in partnership with hospitals; •our ability to recruit and train our sales force and the effectiveness of our sales force, in influencing referral behavior with gynecologists and other health-care providers; •reimbursement treatment from government and third-party insurers for our products; •longstanding use of established treatment options for uterine fibroids and/or the emergence of new treatment options; •our ability to gain market acceptance of UFE using Embosphere Microspheres as a safe, effective and medically necessary treatment for uterine fibroids; •the availability of substantial amounts of cash to fund our commercialization plans; •competitive factors; •our ability to effectively develop adequate marketing, manufacturing, and distribution capabilities; •our ability to maintain the necessary patent protection and regulatory approvals required to market and sell Embosphere Microspheres for UFE; •unemployment levels and adverse economic conditions, which may cause a decrease in UFE procedure rates and sales of our products; and •the various other factors discussed in detail throughout this section titled "Risk Factors." If the market concludes that our products are not safe or effective, we will not achieve widespread market acceptance of our microsphere products, and our business prospects will be seriously harmed. In the United States, we began selling our first microsphere product in the first half of 2000. In November 2002, we received FDA clearance to market our Embosphere Microspheres in the United States for UFE procedures. We began to market and sell our HepaSphere Microspheres in the European Union in the fourth quarter of 2005 and received marketing clearance from the FDA for our QuadraSphere Microspheres in November 2006. Our success will depend upon increasing acceptance by the medical community, patients and third-party payors that our Embosphere Microspheres and other products are medically therapeutic and cost-effective. Our products may not gain widespread market acceptance for a variety of reasons, including: •Our microspheres are designed to occlude targeted blood vessels permanently. There is some risk that some or all of the microspheres used in a medical procedure may travel in the blood system to sites other than the intended treatment site and occlude, or block, other blood vessels, 26 Table of Contents resulting in the potential for significant adverse health effects on the patient or, in a worst case, even death. •To use our microspheres correctly for a particular medical procedure, trained physicians must correctly evaluate the subject's vasculature, select and use the proper size and quantity of the product, and carry out appropriate placement of the product. Physician error potentially could have significant adverse health effects on the patient, including death. •In UFE procedures, patients commonly experience a day or two of post-procedure abdominal pain or cramping. Other infrequently occurring complications may include allergic reactions, rashes, early onset of menopause, infertility and infection that may, in some cases, require a hysterectomy. We are also aware that a small number of the patient population, which we believe constituted approximately 2% of those receiving the UFE procedure using EmboGold Microspheres, reported a delayed onset of rash and/or pain. •There are only limited data concerning the long-term health effects on persons receiving embolotherapy using our microspheres. For example, the effect of UFE on continued fertility has not yet been specifically studied, and our FDA clearance for Embosphere Microspheres currently does not include women who desire future pregnancy. •Product liability claims could create a perception that our products are unsafe. For example, we were named as a defendant in two product liability lawsuits in which the plaintiffs claimed that they were harmed as a result of the use of our microspheres or the negligence of the health-care providers or both factors combined. •Many health-care providers, including obstetricians and gynecologists, use other forms of treatment for patients with uterine fibroids that do not require referral to an interventional radiologist. •We received approval to use our HepaSphere Microspheres to treat liver cancer using procedures such as targeted liver embolotherapy and transarterial chemoembolization in the European Union. Physicians may refrain from using our product for such procedures until further clinical data demonstrate its safety and efficacy as compared to other treatments. Physicians also may not elect to use our HepaSphere Microspheres to treat liver cancers for a number of other reasons, including, without limitation, unfavorable reimbursement from third-party payors, the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products, and our failure to convince physicians that our HepaSphere Microspheres have greater benefits than existing products or therapies. In March 2006, we instituted a voluntary recall of our HepaSphere Microspheres in Europe to correct a packaging defect that we identified while conducting aging studies. HepaSphere Microspheres are contained in a prefilled vial that was in turn initially packaged inside a paper pouch. In the third quarter of 2006, we launched a new plastic packaging configuration for our HepaSphere MicroSphere product designed to correct this defect. Although we are not aware of any adverse events resulting from the defects in the paper packaging, our voluntary recall of this product, or any future recall, voluntary or mandatory, of any of our products, could result in reputational harm or a perception that the recalled product is not safe, either of which could adversely affect market acceptance of our products and result in decreased sales. Other factors could also affect market acceptance of our products, including, without limitation, the introduction of competing products, safety concerns with similar products marketed by others, ineffective sales, marketing and distribution support and significant warranty claims. 27 Table of Contents If gynecologists, obstetricians, interventional radiologists and other health-care providers do not recommend and endorse our products, and if health-care providers do not make the necessary referrals to interventional radiologists who administer our embolotherapy products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales and profits. Our ability to establish and maintain favorable relationships with gynecologists, obstetricians, interventional radiologists and other health-care providers is critical to our continued growth. We believe that the success of these relationships is, and will be, based on, among other things, the quality of our products, such providers' perceptions concerning our commitment to embolotherapy treatments, our marketing efforts and our presence at medical society and trade association meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in our reputation or the quality of our products, or our failure or inability to maintain these or other efforts, could damage our current relationships or prevent us from forming new relationships with health-care professionals and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed. In order for us to sell our products, health-care professionals must recommend and endorse them. For example, our embolotherapy techniques are administered by interventional radiologists. In the treatment of uterine fibroids, we believe that the UFE procedure utilizing our Embosphere Microspheres has not yet achieved widespread acceptance primarily because obstetrics and gynecology physicians may elect to offer and provide other forms of treatment to their patients with uterine fibroids that do not require a referral to another specialist, such as an interventional radiologist. The majority of our revenue is from the sale of our Embosphere Microspheres for UFE and, accordingly, our future success will depend upon obstetrics and gynecology physicians referring patients to interventional radiologists to receive treatment using our Embosphere Microspheres in lieu of, or in addition to, receiving other forms of treatment that the obstetrics and gynecology physicians can otherwise provide directly. We have not achieved widespread market acceptance for UFE as an alternative to other forms of treatment. Acceptance of UFE as a procedure, and our ability to obtain the necessary endorsements and referrals, depend on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to traditional methods of treatment and the products of our competitors, and on training health-care professionals in the proper application of our products. If we are not successful in obtaining the recommendations or endorsements of gynecologists, obstetricians, interventional radiologists and other health-care professionals for our products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales and profits. Product liability claims could create a perception that our products are unsafe. For example, we were named as a defendant in two product liability lawsuits in which the plaintiffs claimed that they were harmed as a result of the use of our microspheres or the negligence of the health-care providers or both factors combined. If we experience delays, difficulties or unanticipated costs in establishing and growing the sales, distribution and marketing capabilities necessary to successfully commercialize our products, we will have difficulty maintaining and seeking to increase our sales. We continue to develop sales, distribution and marketing capabilities primarily in the United States, the European Union, Asia and South America to promote UFE awareness and the benefits of our product for the treatment of uterine fibroids. It has been, and we expect it will continue to be, expensive and time-consuming for us to seek to develop a global sales and marketing force. At December 31, 2009, we had a sales and marketing force of 42 persons located principally in the United States. Competition for skilled salespersons in the medical device industry is intense, and we may not be able to provide adequate incentives to maintain our sales and marketing force or to attract new sales and marketing personnel to promote our products. We have only limited sales and marketing 28 Table of Contents experience in the United States and internationally and may not be successful in developing and implementing our strategy. Among other things, we need to: •provide or ensure that our distribution channels provide the technical and educational support customers need to use our products successfully; •establish and implement successful sales and marketing and education programs that encourage our customers to purchase our products; •manage geographically dispersed markets; and •modify our products and marketing and sales programs for foreign markets. We currently have distribution agreements with a number of third-party distributors, and we may choose or find it necessary to enter into additional third-party agreements to sell, distribute or market our products in the future. Any third party with whom we have established a sales, distribution and/or marketing relationship may not devote sufficient time to the marketing and sales of our products, thereby adversely affecting our planned revenue and exposing us to potential expenses in terminating such distribution agreements. We and any of our third-party collaborators must also market our products in compliance with federal, state and local laws relating to the provision of incentives and inducements. Violation of these laws can result in substantial penalties. If we are unable to successfully motivate and expand our marketing and sales force and further develop our sales and marketing capabilities, or if our distributors fail to promote our products, we will have difficulty maintaining and increasing our sales, we may not achieve profitability and our stock price could decline. We will be required to expend significant resources for research, development, testing and regulatory approval or clearance of our products under development, and these products may not be developed successfully. We are developing and commercializing products for medical applications using embolotherapy techniques, including, without limitation, a smaller-sized version of our HepaSphere Microsphere and QuadraSphere Microsphere, which are still in preclinical development. Our products under development may not provide greater benefits than current treatments or products, or alternative treatments or products under development. All of our products under development will require significant additional research, development, engineering and preclinical and/or clinical testing, as well as regulatory approval or clearance and a commitment of significant additional resources prior to their commercialization. For example, FDA regulations require that we conduct clinical trials and submit a marketing application which includes positive data from clinical trials to the FDA in order to obtain the approvals and clearances required to promote QuadraSphere Microspheres for the treatment of a specific disease or condition, including primary and metastatic liver cancer. In October 2009, we submitted to the FDA an IDE application to commence a clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of our QuadraSphere Microspheres combined with the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin against conventional transarterial chemoembolization with doxorubicin in patients with primary liver cancer. The FDA has advised us that our study protocol will need to include survival as a primary endpoint for the trial, rather than overall tumor response rate at six months, which was the primary endpoint that we proposed in our initial IDE application. Our satisfactory resolution of the FDA's comments on the IDE is a condition to starting the clinical trial. We are currently evaluating the FDA's protocol requirements for the trial, including how the primary endpoint requirements will affect our plans regarding the size of the trial and the timeline and cost for completion. We have not reached a conclusion about whether or when to undertake the clinical trial and if we determine to not undertake the trial, or if we undertake the trial and the results are not sufficient to obtain FDA approval, then we will not be able to promote our QuadraSphere Microspheres for liver cancer indications. Our potential products may not: •be developed successfully; 29 Table of Contents •be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; •offer therapeutic or other improvements over current treatments and products; •meet applicable regulatory standards or receive regulatory approvals or clearances; •be capable of production in commercial quantities at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory requirements; or •be successfully marketed. If we do not develop and introduce new products, our business may not grow and our future prospects may be adversely affected. In order to grow our revenue in future periods we need to develop and introduce new applications for our embolotherapy technology and pursue opportunities for microsphere technology in other medical applications. Any such new application for our embolotherapy technology or microsphere technology will be subject to a number of risks inherent in the development and commercialization of a medical device product, including uncertainties with respect to the successful completion of clinical trials, our ability to achieve and maintain, and our willingness to seek, required regulatory approvals or clearances and our ability to successfully commercialize, market and sell these new applications, if FDA approval or clearance is achieved. If, as a result of these or other risks, we are not successful in developing new applications and products, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We have been subject to product liability claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future, we may incur substantial costs and expenses in defending such claims, and if we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance, we may have to pay significant monetary damages in a successful product liability claim against us. The development and sale of medical devices entails an inherent risk of product liability. For example, if physicians do not use our products properly, if patients experience adverse side effects in procedures in which our products are used, or if patients, health-care providers or other constituencies conclude that any of our products are not safe or effective for any reason, we may be exposed to product liability claims. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability, and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. In 2005 and 2008, we were named as a defendant in two such product liability lawsuits in which the plaintiffs alleged, among other things, that they were harmed by the use of our microsphere products, the negligence of the health-care providers or both of these factors combined. Although these lawsuits settled within the limits of our product liability insurance, we are subject to the risk of additional product liability lawsuits, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects are subject to a number of significant risks relating to any such lawsuits, including the following: •Claims asserting medical product liability have in the past resulted in multiple-million-dollar damage awards for plaintiffs against various manufacturers of drugs and medical devices. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, if a plaintiff in a product liability lawsuit brought against us were to prevail in his or her claims against us and was awarded substantial damages, our insurance, which is subject to a $5.00 million cap on the maximum amount our insurer is required to pay for all claims within any one-year period and which is eroded by the costs of defense, may not provide us with adequate coverage for a judgment against us. If we are forced to satisfy a judgment in excess of our product liability 30 Table of Contents coverage, we may not have sufficient cash to pay such judgment. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise the additional funds required to satisfy such judgment on favorable terms, or at all. In such case, we may be required to curtail our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, the viability of our business and future prospects, and would likely cause our stock price to decline. •Although we maintain product liability insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in court judgments or settlements that are not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance. For example, our current product liability insurance policy contains an exclusion for punitive damages, which are typically sought in product liability lawsuits. Our insurance policies also have various other exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and, in such case, we could be required to make a substantial payment for which we may not have sufficient cash. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise the additional funds required to make such payment on favorable terms, or at all. In such case, we may be required to curtail our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, the viability of our business and our future prospects, and would likely cause our stock price to decline. •Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of whether it has merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or our inability to secure additional insurance coverage in the future. •Defending litigation can be time consuming and can divert our management's attention from other priorities, including the execution of business plans and strategies that are important to our ability to grow our business. •Our reputation with patients and health-care providers, including the referring gynecologists, oncologists and interventional radiologists, who are key to our current sales and marketing strategies, could be harmed because we have been named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the past, and could also be harmed if we are subject to any such claims in the future. Any reputational harm could adversely affect our ability to execute on our current sales and marketing strategies and, ultimately, on the sales of our products, and our stock price would likely decline. •If, as a result of past or future product liability litigation, the market perceives that our products are unsafe, we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to gain market acceptance of our products and experience a decline in our revenue, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the viability of our business, and cause our stock price to decline as a result. •In the prior lawsuits in which we were named as a party, the plaintiffs alleged that our microspheres were defective and that the manner in which the applicable product was marketed was insufficient. As is often the case when product liability lawsuits arise that assert claims of defects in the manufacturing and design of a medical device or of a failure to warn of risks inherent to such product, the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies outside of the U.S. could engage in a further review of the safety of these products and their approved conditions for use. On the basis of that review, the FDA or such other regulatory agency could decide to impose additional requirements regarding the manufacturing, marketing or promotion of these products, require changes to the labeling of these products, recall these products, or commence proceedings to withdraw its clearance of the products, any of which could harm our reputation, adversely affect market acceptance of these products or cause a decline in revenue from the sale 31 Table of Contents of the applicable product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the viability of our business and our future prospects, and cause our stock price to decline. If we are not able to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand for our products, which may result in price reductions. The medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development, and rapid technological change. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain a competitive position in both the embolotherapy and related delivery systems markets. We have many competitors in the United States and abroad, including medical device, biotechnology and other alternative therapeutic companies, universities and other private and public research institutions. Our key competitors in both the fields of embolotherapy and the delivery systems used in the UFE procedure are Biocompatibles Limited, Boston Scientific Corporation, Cook Incorporated, Cordis Corporation, a Johnson & Johnson company, Pfizer Inc., Terumo Corporation and CeloNova BioSciences, Inc. Many of our competitors may have greater capabilities, experience and financial resources than we do. As a result, they may develop products more quickly or at less cost, that compete with our microsphere products and related delivery systems. For example, in recent years we have experienced increased competition from products that compete with Embosphere Microsphere products for UFE. Moreover, some of our competitors have provided free or reduced-price samples of competing forms of microspheres for use in medical procedures for which our Embosphere Microspheres are indicated. We believe the availability of these free or reduced-price samples may have adversely affected our revenue, and if this practice recurs our product revenue may continue to be adversely affected. Currently, the primary products with which our microspheres compete for some of our applications are spherical PVA sold by Boston Scientific, Terumo and Biocompatibles, Embozene by CeloNova, gelfoam sold by Pfizer, and non-spherical (particle) PVA sold by Boston Scientific and Cook and drug-eluting beads manufactured by Biocompatibles. In the treatment of symptomatic uterine fibroids, our customers compete with obstetrics and gynecology physicians who elect to offer and provide other forms of treatment to their patients with uterine fibroids that do not require referral to another specialist. These treatment options currently include hysterectomy, myomectomy, laparoscopic myomectomy, drug therapy and robotic-assisted hysterectomy. Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes or technologies, in particular in the market for treating uterine fibroids, may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may negatively impact our revenue. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our market and continue to develop our business commercially. If we fail to maintain, or in some instances obtain, an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, there may be no commercially viable markets for our products. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors affects the market for any medical device. We may not be able to sell our products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. Some insurance companies do not fully reimburse for embolization procedures. These third-party payors may attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering the rate at which providers are reimbursed for embolization procedures or challenging the prices that companies such as ours charge for medical products. For example, on January 1, 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued a rule providing for a single, all-inclusive reimbursement code for UFE. This code is inclusive of all services occurring on the day of 32 Table of Contents the procedure. This physician reimbursement rate is lower than the rate historically received by physicians. We believe that some physicians have shifted their procedural mix away from UFE in response to this change in reimbursement, which has, and may continue to, negatively affect our sales growth. Conversely, beginning January 1, 2008 the CMS assigned a new ambulatory procedure code, or APC, for UFE procedures performed in an outpatient setting. We believe that this new APC code has resulted in an increase in hospital reimbursement for UFE procedures. However, CMS could adversely change this APC code in the future or otherwise decrease the payment rate for such UFE procedures. Any change in reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on utilization rates for UFE or liver embolization procedures. In some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union where our microsphere products are currently marketed and sold, the pricing of medical devices is subject to governmental control, and the prices charged for our products have in some instances been reduced as a result of these controls. Initiatives to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price regulation, are underway in the United States and other major health-care markets. For example, payors may increase the complexity of patient precertification required prior to performing a UFE procedure. In addition, we may be affected by prescription drug benefit legislation recently enacted in the United States. It is unclear what, if any, impact on hospital and/or physician reimbursement levels for UFE may result from new health-care reform initiatives currently being debated in the U.S. Congress. While these initiatives have in many cases related to pharmaceutical pricing, implementation of more sweeping health-care reforms in significant markets may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is provided for, our products and may influence a physician's selection of products used to treat patients. If we do not recruit and retain senior management and other key employees, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to recruit and retain members of our senior management, including Richard J. Faleschini, our president and chief executive officer; Martin J. Joyce, our executive vice president of finance and administration and chief financial officer; Melodie R. Domurad, Ph.D., our vice president of regulatory, medical affairs and quality systems; and Peter C. Sutcliffe, our vice president of manufacturing, and other key employees. Effective March 31, 2010, Willard W. Hennemann, Ph. D., our vice president of new products and business development, and Joel B. Weinstein, our vice president of global marketing and sales, will step down from their positions and cease to be employed by us. Disruptions in our business could result in the near term as a result of their departure or any other such departures. All of the agreements with our officers provide that their employment may be terminated either by the employee or by us at any time and without notice. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our executive officers or other personnel. If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never successfully integrate the acquired businesses into ours. We may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic complement to our business model. We may encounter operating difficulties and expenditures relating to the integration of an acquired business, technology, service or product. These acquisitions may also absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. We may also make dilutive issuances of equity securities, incur debt or experience a decrease in the cash available for our operations, or incur contingent liabilities in connection with any future acquisitions. 33 Table of Contents Because key stockholders beneficially own a significant amount of our common stock, they may be able to exert control over us. As of March 1, 2010, we believe that Sepracor Inc., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., or Sepracor, and funds affiliated with Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., or Cerberus, beneficially owned approximately 21% and 13% of our outstanding common stock, respectively, including shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of series A preferred stock held by these stockholders. Moreover, we have granted board-observation rights to Sepracor and Cerberus. Accordingly, Sepracor and Cerberus may have significant influence over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors, amendment of our charter documents and the approval of merger or significant asset sale transactions. In addition, the shares of our series A preferred stock held by Sepracor and Cerberus entitle them to certain voting rights in accordance with the terms and conditions of the series A preferred stock. Specifically, we will need the consent of holders of at least 50% of the series A preferred stock initially purchased by Sepracor and Cerberus to undertake certain key corporate actions, including the following: •amending our charter or bylaws in a manner that adversely affects the holders of series A preferred stock; •authorizing or issuing any equity security that is senior to or pari passu with the series A preferred stock; and •declaring or paying any dividends on, or redeeming or repurchasing any shares of, our capital stock, subject to customary exceptions. The ownership concentration of Sepracor and Cerberus could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, conflicts of interest between these key stockholders and us may arise, including with respect to competitive business activities and control of our management and our affairs. The holders of shares of our series A preferred stock have rights that could adversely affect an investment in our common stock. The holders of our series A preferred stock have the right to an adjustment in the conversion rate of the series A preferred stock if we issue securities at a price below the purchase price paid by these holders. These provisions could substantially dilute stockholders' interest in us in the event of future financing transactions. The holders of series A preferred stock also have the right to receive a 6% dividend per annum which, at our election, may be paid in cash or additional shares of series A preferred stock. To the extent such dividends are paid in stock, this dividend could also further dilute stockholders' ownership interest. In addition, the holders of our series A preferred stock have the right to participate in future capital-raising transactions by us. The existence of this right may reduce our ability to establish terms with respect to, or enter into, any financing with parties other than the holders of our series A preferred stock. In the event that we enter into an acquisition or business combination in which we sell all or substantially all of our assets, or if there occurs a change of control of a majority of our common stock outstanding prior to such transaction, the holders of our series A preferred stock will have the right to receive, before any distributions or payments to the holders of our common stock, an amount in cash equal to their initial purchase price for the Series A preferred Stock, $8,000,000, plus an amount equal to any accrued but unpaid dividends, and will then participate with the holders of the common stock on a pro-rata basis with respect to the distribution of any remaining assets. The existence of this right may make it difficult for us to raise capital in financing transactions with third parties and will also result in holders of our common stock receiving smaller distributions or payments upon a change of control or 34 Table of Contents asset sale than they would be entitled to receive if no preferential payments were required to be made to holders of our series A preferred stock. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state health-care fraud and abuse laws and regulations or the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, to report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of customer information or information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. The marketing claims the FDA specifically authorized us to make regarding our microspheres in the United States were set forth in the FDA clearance. Our EmboGold Microspheres have not been specifically cleared for use in UFE. Although our QuadraSphere Microspheres are identical to our HepaSphere Microspheres, which are currently marketed in the European Union for use in the embolization of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis, our QuadraSphere Microspheres are not indicated for use in hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis. We will need to conduct a clinical trial and obtain approval of a marketing application from the FDA in order to claim the use of the QuadraSphere Microspheres for the treatment of a specific disease or condition, such as hepatocellular cancer or hepatic metastasis in the United States, while European Union regulations do not require such an application for this class of medical devices. In order for us to seek FDA approval or clearance to promote the use of QuadraSphere Microspheres for the embolization of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis, we will need to complete a clinical trial and submit positive clinical data to the FDA. In October 2009, we submitted to the FDA an IDE application to commence a clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of our QuadraSphere Microspheres combined with the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin against conventional transarterial chemoembolization with doxorubicin in patients with primary liver cancer. The FDA has advised us that our study protocol will need to include survival as a primary endpoint for the trial, rather than overall tumor response rate at six months, which was the primary endpoint that we proposed in our initial IDE application. Our satisfactory resolution of the FDA's comments on the IDE is a condition to starting the clinical trial. We are currently evaluating the FDA's protocol requirements for the trial, including how the primary endpoint requirements will affect our plans regarding the size of the trial and the timeline and cost for completion. We have not reached a conclusion about whether or when to undertake the clinical trial and if we determine to not undertake the trial, or if we undertake the trial and the results are not sufficient to obtain FDA approval, then we will not be able to promote our QuadraSphere Microspheres for liver cancer indications. Although we have not received approval or clearance from the FDA to market our QuadraSphere Microspheres for primary or metastatic liver cancer in the United States, we believe that some physicians are using QuadraSphere Microspheres off-label in the treatment of primary and metastatic liver cancer. If the FDA were to conclude that we have improperly promoted our products for unapproved indications, the FDA could allege that our promotional activities misbrand or adulterate our products. 35 Table of Contents In addition, during the course of our operations, our directors, executives and employees may have access to material, nonpublic information regarding our business, our results of operations or potential transactions we are considering. Despite our adoption of an Insider Trading Policy, we may not be able to prevent a director or employee from trading in our common stock on the basis of, or while having access to, material, nonpublic information. If a director or employee were to be investigated, or an action were to be brought against a director or employee for insider trading, it could have a negative impact on our reputation and our stock price. Such a claim, with or without merit, could also result in substantial expenditures of time and money, and divert attention of our management team from other tasks important to the success of our business. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters If we do not obtain and maintain the regulatory approvals or clearances required to market and sell our products, then our business may be unsuccessful and the market price of our stock may decline. We are subject to regulation by government agencies in the United States and abroad with respect to the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and sale of our products. For example, our products are subject to approval or clearance by the FDA prior to commercial marketing in the United States. Similar regulations exist in most major foreign markets, including the European Union, Latin America and Asia. The process of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and clearances is time-consuming and expensive for us. If we do not receive required regulatory approval or clearance to market our products, or if any approvals or clearances we have received are revoked or terminated, we may not be able to commercialize our products and become profitable, and the value of our common stock may decline. We are also subject to numerous U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all the risks associated with FDA approval or clearance described above, as well as risks attributable to the requirement to satisfy local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities of some countries outside the United States. Many foreign regulatory authorities, including those in major markets such as Japan and the People's Republic of China, have different approval processes. Clinical trials of new products or new indications for our products, if commenced, may not be successful, which may delay or prevent commercialization of such new products or new indications. In order to obtain regulatory approval to market new products or new indications for our products, we may be required to complete clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of such new products or new indications. For example, FDA regulations require that we conduct clinical trials and submit a marketing application seeking to obtain the approvals and clearances required to promote our QuadraSphere Microspheres for primary liver cancer. In October 2009, we submitted to the FDA an IDE application to commence a clinical trial comparing the effectiveness of our QuadraSphere Microspheres combined with the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin against conventional transarterial chemoembolization with doxorubicin in patients with primary liver cancer. We are currently in discussions with the FDA about the clinical trial protocol and have not reached a conclusion about whether or when to undertake the clinical trial. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take multiple years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, any clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive the regulatory approval we are seeking. These unforeseen events may include: •regulatory authorities may not approve our application to commence such a trial, or we may be delayed in obtaining approval of such application by the regulatory authority; •conditions imposed on us by the regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of such clinical trials; 36 Table of Contents •difficulty obtaining or maintaining institutional review board approval of such clinical trials at one or more clinical sites; •difficulty in complying with applicable regulations for conducting such clinical trials; •any clinical trials we may undertake may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials; •the number of patients required for such clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in such clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or participants may drop out of such clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, any of which would result in significant delays and increased costs; •we might have to suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participants are experiencing unacceptable health risks; •regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; •the cost of clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; and •we may not achieve the desired favorable effects, the treatment may not compare favorably with other methods or procedures, may produce undesirable side effects or may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of the use of new products or products for new indications, if we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials or other testing, if the results of any such trials are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: •be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for the new products or new indications that are the subject of the clinical trial; •not be able to obtain marketing approval; or •obtain approval for an indication that is not as broad as the indication that we sought. The delay, suspension or discontinuation of clinical trials for any of the foregoing reasons could adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize the new products or new indications that are the subject of the clinical trial, increase our operating expenses, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the FDA or another regulatory agency places restrictions on, or imposes additional approval or clearance requirements with respect to, products we are then marketing, we may incur substantial additional costs and experience delays or difficulties in continuing to market and sell these products. Even if the FDA grants us approval or clearance with respect to marketing any product, such product will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and restrictions, including the review of clinical results which are reported after such product is made commercially available, and restrictions on the indications for which we can market the product. The FDA can propose to withdraw approval or clearance or impose additional restrictions if new clinical data on the use of a product indicates that a product may not be safe for use under the approved conditions of use. For example, we were named as a defendant in two product liability lawsuits in which the plaintiffs claimed that our microspheres were defective and not accompanied by proper warnings and instructions for use. Product liability claims like these can lead the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies outside of the U.S. to engage in a further review of the safety of these products and their approved conditions for use. On the basis of that review, the FDA or such other regulatory agency could determine to impose additional requirements regarding the manufacturing, marketing or promotion of these products, require changes to the labeling of these products, or commence proceedings to withdraw its clearance of these products, any of which 37 Table of Contents could harm our reputation, adversely affect market acceptance of these products or cause a decline in revenue from the sale of the applicable product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the viability of our business and our future prospects and cause our stock price to decline. The marketing claims we are permitted to make in labeling or advertising regarding our microspheres in the United States are limited to those consistent with any FDA approval or clearance. For example, because our EmboGold Microspheres are not cleared for specific use in UFE, we may not promote them for this specific use. Although our QuadraSphere Microspheres are identical in all respects to our HepaSphere Microspheres, which are currently marketed in the European Union for use in the embolization of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis, our QuadraSphere Microspheres are not specifically indicated for use in hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis. FDA regulations require that we conduct clinical trials prior to submitting a marketing application to claim the use of QuadraSphere Microspheres for the treatment of a specific disease or condition, such as hepatocellular cancer or hepatic metastasis, while European Union regulations do not require preclearance clinical trials for this class of medical device on an indication-by-indication basis. Accordingly, in order for us to seek FDA approval or clearance to promote the use of QuadraSphere Microspheres for the embolization of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis, we will be required to undertake clinical trials. In October 2009, we submitted to the FDA an IDE application to commence a clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of our QuadraSphere Microspheres combined with the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin against conventional transarterial chemoembolization with doxorubicin in patients with primary liver cancer. The FDA has advised us that our study protocol will need to include survival as a primary endpoint for the trial, rather than overall tumor response rate at six months, which was the primary endpoint that we proposed in our initial IDE application. Our satisfactory resolution of the FDA's comments on the IDE is a condition to starting the clinical trial. We are currently evaluating the FDA's protocol requirements for the trial, including how the primary endpoint requirements will affect our plans regarding the size of the trial and the timeline and cost for completion. We have not reached a conclusion about whether or when to undertake the clinical trial and if we determine to not undertake the trial, or if we undertake the trial and the results are not sufficient to obtain FDA approval, then we will not be able to promote our QuadraSphere Microspheres for liver cancer indications. If the FDA were to conclude that our advertisements, labeling or statements made by our sales representatives or other company officials, improperly promote our products for unapproved indications or otherwise violate the law, the FDA could allege that our promotional activities misbrand or adulterate our products. Specifically, the FDA could issue an untitled letter or warning letter, which may request, among other things, that we cease such promotional activities, including disseminating the advertisements and promotional labeling, and that we issue corrective labeling, including sending letters to health-care providers. The FDA also could take enforcement action, including seizure of product, injunction or criminal prosecution against us and our officers or employees, or seek civil penalties, disgorgement or restitution. We may in the future make modifications to our microspheres or their labeling or the process through which they are manufactured, which we determine do not necessitate the filing of a new 510(k) notification or premarket approval application supplement, or PMA supplement. However, if the FDA does not agree with our determination, it may require us to make additional 510(k) filings for the modification, or to file a PMA supplement, and we may be prohibited from marketing the modified product or the new claims until we obtain FDA approval or clearance. The FDA may also institute an enforcement action against us in these circumstances. If we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our products and product candidates successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to decreased acceptance of our products by the market. 38 Table of Contents Even if we obtain the necessary FDA clearances or approvals, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, our products could be subject to corrections, removals or recalls from the market or other enforcement action. We are subject to the Medical Device Reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a patient death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctioned and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA's rules on labeling and promotion. We must also comply with the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practice requirements as set forth in the Quality System regulations. Our failure to comply with these or other applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following: •untitled letters, warning letters, fines, product seizures, injunctions and civil penalties; •administrative detention, which is the detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; •customer notification of, or FDA orders for, repair, replacement or refund; •voluntary or mandatory recall of our products; •operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production or a refusal to allow imported product into the United States; •refusal to review premarket notification or premarket approval submissions; •rescission of a substantial equivalence order or suspension or withdrawal of a premarket approval; and •criminal prosecution. If we are subject to an enforcement action, our ability to develop, market and sell our products successfully would be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we may experience decreased market acceptance of our products. Existing or future legislation or regulations may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval or clearance of our product candidates and to produce, market and distribute products after approval. In September 2007, the President of the United States signed into law the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA. The FDAAA grants a variety of new powers to the FDA, many of which are aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate certain provisions of the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties. The new requirements and other changes that the FDAAA imposes may make it more difficult, and likely more costly, to obtain approval or clearance of new medical device products and to produce, market and distribute products after approval. The FDA is currently reviewing its 510(k) regulatory program and may implement changes that will make it more difficult, time-consuming, or costly to obtain 510(k) clearance. The FDAAA also establishes requirements for registering certain types of device clinical trials, and reporting the results of those trials, in a national, publicly accessible database. In addition, the FDA requires certification of compliance with this requirement to be submitted with applications or reports concerning such studies. The failure to comply with the clinical trial registry requirements is subject to civil monetary penalties. Legislation or regulations enacted or modified in the future, including potential changes to the 510(k) premarket notification process, may also make it more difficult and/or costly to obtain clearance of new medical device products or to produce, market and distribute products after approval. 39 Table of Contents We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state health-care fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal health-care fraud and abuse laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal health-care programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws, we and our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain patent protection for our products, their competitive value could decline. We may not obtain meaningful protection for our technology and products with the patents and patent applications that we own or license relating to our microsphere technology or other ancillary products. In particular, the patent rights we possess or are pursuing generally cover our technologies to varying degrees, and these rights may not prevent others from designing products similar to or otherwise competitive with our Embosphere Microspheres and other products we commercialize. To the extent that our competitors are able to design products competitive with ours, we may experience less market penetration with our products and, consequently, we may have decreased revenue. The patent laws involving medical devices and life sciences technologies such as our microspheres are complex and vary from country to country. Thus, although we have a current policy of pursuing patent protection wherever possible for our new technologies, we cannot predict whether we will secure patent protection from any of our existing patent applications in the United States or abroad. We also cannot predict whether such coverage obtained in any of our United States or foreign patent applications will be meaningful. We do not know whether competitors have similar U.S. patent applications on file, since U.S. patent applications filed before November 28, 2000, or for which no foreign patents will be sought, are secret until issued, and applications filed after November 28, 2000 are published approximately 18 months after their earliest priority date. Consequently, the United States Patent and Trademark Office could initiate interference proceedings involving our owned or licensed U.S. patent applications or issued patents. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. We require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. However, we cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market. 40 Table of Contents If we become involved in expensive patent litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend our patent rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses or substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts. On January 13, 2005, we were notified of a Notice of Opposition filed in the European Patent Office, or EPO, by Biocompatibles UK Limited on December 23, 2004, challenging the patentability of the claims in our granted European Patent, EP 1128816, which relates to certain PVA microspheres for use in embolization and methods thereof. On December 10, 2007, the EPO upheld the claims of our patent in amended form and rendered its formal written decision on December 27, 2007. We and Biocompatibles have appealed this decision. The EPO has not set a date, but we expect oral proceedings to be scheduled within the next twelve months. On July 1, 2008, Biocompatibles UK Limited filed a Notice of Opposition in the EPO challenging the patentability of the claims in our granted European Patent, EP 1267839, which relates to certain drug-loaded microspheres and their use in embolization. We filed a reply to Notice of Opposition on March 19, 2009. Oral Proceedings are scheduled for September 23, 2010. We intend to continue to defend our European patents. We are not able to predict the outcome of either of these opposition proceedings. With the exception of the two European Opposition proceedings just described, we are not currently involved in any other litigation or actions with third parties to enforce or defend our patent rights. However, in order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits, opposition proceedings or interference proceedings or defend against such proceedings. By initiating legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, we may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. If we do not prevail in any such proceedings, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. We may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court regarding the proprietary rights of others. As we introduce new products into the market, we may be accused of infringing the patent rights of third parties. If we do not prevail in such a patent litigation brought against one of our products or its use, we may be required to pay damages, stop selling our product or obtain a royalty-bearing license if one is obtainable. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be prevented from selling some of our products, which could decrease our revenue. Intellectual property litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, could divert management attention and resources away from our business. If our exclusive license to use the Embosphere Microsphere intellectual property that we jointly own with L'Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris is terminated, then our competitive position, financial condition, prospects and stock price could be adversely affected. We have an agreement with L'Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, or AP-HP, pursuant to which AP-HP has granted us exclusive rights to use two United States patents and their foreign counterparts that we jointly own with AP-HP relating to Embosphere Microspheres. This agreement can be terminated on short notice by AP-HP if we default on our obligations under the license and fail to cure such default after notice is provided. The license imposes commercialization, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. Our failure, or any sublicensee's failure, to comply with the terms of the license could result in our loss of our exclusive rights to the jointly-owned intellectual property that is the subject of the license. If the AP-HP exclusive license is terminated, AP-HP will have the right to grant a non-exclusive license to our jointly-owned technology to a third party which would then have the freedom to seek regulatory approval of, and to market, products identical to our Embosphere Microspheres. This could have a material adverse effect on our competitive business position, financial condition and our business prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. 41 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Production and Supply of Our Products If we experience manufacturing delays or interruptions in production, then we may experience customer dissatisfaction and our reputation could suffer. If we fail to produce sufficient products at our own manufacturing facility or at a third-party manufacturing facility, we may be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and could harm our reputation and ability to compete. We currently produce and package all of our microsphere products in one manufacturing facility in France. We have contracted with two suppliers for our guidewire products. Either we or any third-party manufacturer would likely experience significant delays or cessation in producing our products if we or they experience difficulties, delays or failures in manufacturing processes, quality control processes, equipment calibration, process-critical equipment or in any other process necessary for the manufacture of our products, or if we or they experience a labor-based error or omission, or a labor strike, natural disaster, local or regional conflict or any disruption in supply. If we are unable to manufacture and package our products at our facility in France, we may be required to enter into arrangements with one or more alternative contract manufacturing companies. Even if we are able to identify alternative facilities to manufacture our products, if necessary, we may experience disruption in the supply of our products until such facilities are available. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our failure to deliver products on a timely basis could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. In addition, if we are required to depend on third-party manufacturers, our profit margins may be lower, which will make it more difficult for us to achieve profitability. Medical device manufacturers must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices and Quality System Regulations which are enforced by the FDA through its inspection program. We and other third-party manufacturers must comply with various quality system requirements pertaining to all aspects of our product design and manufacturing process, including requirements for packaging, labeling and record keeping, complaint handling, corrective and preventive actions, adoption of new manufacturing methods and internal auditing. In addition, medical device manufacturing laws are also in effect in many countries outside of the U.S. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply or maintain compliance. If we or any third-party manufacturers we engage fail to comply, such noncompliance could significantly delay our receipt of new product premarket approvals, result in FDA enforcement action, including an embargo on imported devices, or otherwise cause delays and disruptions in the manufacture and supply of our products, any of which would harm our reputation and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Because we rely on a limited number of suppliers, we may experience difficulty in meeting our customers' demands for our products in a timely manner or within budget. We currently purchase key components and services with respect to our microspheres, catheters and guidewires from approximately ten third-party vendors, including a third party from which we purchase guidewires for our Segway Guidewire product; a third party from which we purchase catheters for our EmboCath Plus Infusion Microcatheter product; and a third party from which we purchase guidewires for our Sequitor Steerable Guidewire and recently released Tenor Steerable Guidewire product. Our reliance on our suppliers exposes us to risks, including: •the possibility that one or more of our suppliers could terminate their services at any time without penalty; •the potential inability of our suppliers to obtain required components; 42 Table of Contents •the potential delays and expenses of seeking alternative sources of supply; •reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to difficulties in switching to alternative suppliers; and •the possibility that one or more of our suppliers could fail to be compliant with Quality System Regulations, 21 CFR Part 820. Consequently, in the event that our suppliers delay or interrupt the supply of components for any reason, our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. Risks Relating to Our Foreign Operations If we are unable to meet the operational, legal and financial challenges that we encounter in our international operations, we may not be able to grow our business. Our worldwide manufacturing and European sales operations are currently conducted primarily through our French subsidiary. Furthermore, we currently derive a portion of our revenue from the sale of our microspheres and delivery system products outside the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 22%, 20%, and 19%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from sales of our microspheres and delivery systems in geographic territories outside the United States. We are increasingly subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which would limit the growth of our business. These challenges include: •failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; •protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; •the requirement that we obtain regulatory approval or clearance in each country in which we choose to offer and sell our products; •in some jurisdictions, strict government-regulated price controls; •complex reimbursement procedures; •potentially longer sales cycles to sell products, which could slow our revenue growth from international sales; and •potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables. In 2008, we commercially launched our Embosphere Microsphere product in the People's Republic of China. Conducting business in China exposes us to a variety of risks and uncertainties that are unique to China. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow 43 Table of Contents the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in interruptions of our commercialization efforts in China. In addition, the Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Our commercialization efforts in China could be materially harmed by any changes in the political, legal or economic climate in China or the inability to enforce applicable Chinese laws and regulations. If such commercialization efforts in China are materially harmed, we would not be able to grow sales of our Embosphere Microspheres in China and our operating results could be adversely affected. Because we translate foreign currency from international sales into U.S. dollars and are required to make foreign currency payments, we may incur losses due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted in the European Union euro. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business will cause foreign currency translation gains and losses, which may cause fluctuations in our future operating results. We do not currently engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure. Risk Relating to Our Stock Price Because the market price of our stock is highly volatile, investments in our stock could rapidly lose their value and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The market price of our stock is highly volatile. From January 1, 2008 through March 1, 2010, the price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.26 to a high of $6.00. As a result of this volatility, investments in our stock could rapidly lose their value. Our stock price could fluctuate for many reasons, including, without limitation: •variations in our quarterly operating results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •third-party sales of large blocks of our common stock; •rumors relating to us or our competitors; •changes to our research and development plans and/or announcements regarding new technologies by us or our competitors; •our decision not to commence our planned QuadraSphere Microspheres clinical trial, or if commenced, suspension or termination of such trial; •negative publicity or unfavorable media coverage; •filings of, results of or developments under lawsuits involving us or our competitors; •sales by us of equity or debt to fund our operations; •the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; •FDA or international regulatory actions or lawsuits concerning the safety of our products; and •market conditions, both in the medical device sector and generally. 44 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market often experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations, which affect the stock prices of many medical device companies and which are often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. When the market price of a stock has been as volatile as our stock price has been, holders of that stock may institute securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs in defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 