Item 1A. Risk Factors In preparing our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our failure to remedy this or other material weaknesses could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for our company. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act. Our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified by management as of December 31, 2012 related to our failure to maintain sufficient professional accounting resources to effectively execute our internal controls and procedures over significant, complex accounting matters. See "Item 9A—Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting" for further information. We plan to implement remedial measures designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address this material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions. The current global economic downturn could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The decline in economic conditions may negatively impact the demand for our products and services and our ability to conduct our business thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. The economic downturn may have negatively impacted, and/or may negatively impact, among other things: •our continued growth and development of our business; •our liquidity; •our ability to raise capital and obtain financing; and •the price of our common stock. We have a history of net losses and expect net losses will continue. If we continue to operate at a loss our business will not be financially viable. We have experienced significant losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception. We have not realized a net operating profit in any quarter since we began our operations. Wave's revenue in 2012 was less than operating expenses as our products have not yet attained widespread commercial acceptance. This is due in part to the early stage nature of the digital security industry in which we operate. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $396.9 million and negative working capital of approximately $5.7 million. Given the lack of widespread adoption of the technology for our products and services, there is little basis for evaluating the financial viability of our business and our long-term prospects. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties that companies in their early stage of development encounter, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as digital security and online commerce. 20 Table of Contents To achieve profitability we must, among other things: •Continue to convince chip, personal computer motherboard, personal computer and computer peripheral manufacturers to license and distribute our products and services and/or make them available to their customers through their sales channels; •Continue to convince computer end users and enterprise computer users to purchase our upgrade software and server products for trusted computing: •Convince consumers to choose to order, purchase and accept products using our products and services; •Continue to maintain the necessary resources, especially talented software programmers; •Continue to develop relationships with personal computer manufacturers, computer chip manufacturers and computer systems integrators to facilitate and to maximize acceptance of our products and services; and •Generate substantial revenue, complete one or more commercial or strategic transactions or raise additional capital to support our operations until we can generate sufficient revenues and cash flows. If we do not succeed in these objectives we will not generate revenues and our business will not be sustainable. We may be unable to raise or generate the additional financing or cash flow which will be necessary to continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. Since we began our operations we have incurred net losses and experienced significant negative cash flow from operations. This is due to the early stage nature of market development for our products and services and the digital security industry as a whole. Wave expects to continue to incur substantial additional expenses associated with continued research and development and business development activities that will be necessary to commercialize our technology. We may be unable to raise or generate the additional financing or cash flow which will be necessary to continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. In addition to our efforts to generate revenue sufficient to fund our operations, or complete one or more commercial or strategic transactions, Wave may evaluate additional financing options to generate additional capital in order to continue as a going concern, to capitalize on business opportunities and market conditions and to insure the continued development of our technology, products and services. We do not know if additional financing will be available or that, if available, it will be available on favorable terms. If we issue additional shares of our stock our stockholders' ownership will be diluted and the shares issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. In addition, if we pursue debt financing we may be required to pay interest costs. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our forecasted expenditures would require us to reduce our cash burn rate which would in turn impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Even if we are successful in raising additional capital, uncertainty with respect to Wave's viability will continue until we are successful in achieving our objectives. Furthermore, although we may be successful at achieving our business objectives, a positive cash flow from operations may not ultimately be realized unless we are able to sell our products and services at a profit. Given the early stage nature of the markets for our products and services considerable uncertainty exists as to whether or not Wave's business model is viable. If we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow or obtaining additional funding we may be unable to continue our operations, develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or continue as a going concern. 21 Table of Contents A single customer accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and, therefore, the loss of that customer may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We have one customer that accounted for approximately 55% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. If our relationship with any of our significant customers were disrupted we could lose a significant portion of our anticipated revenues which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Factors that could influence our relationships with our customers include, among other things: •our ability to sell our products at prices that are competitive with our competitors; •our ability to maintain features and quality standards for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our customers; and •our ability to produce and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet our customers' requirements. If our OEM customers fail to purchase our components or to sell sufficient quantities of their products incorporating our components or if our OEM customers' sales timing and volume fluctuates, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In general, our ability to make sales to OEM customers depends on our ability to compete on price, delivery and quality. The timing and volume of these sales depend upon the sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our OEM customers incorporate our products. Thus, even if we develop a successful component, our sales will not increase unless the product into which our component is incorporated is successful. If our OEM customers decide not to incorporate our products as components of their products or fail to sell a sufficient quantity of products incorporating our components, or if the OEM customers' sales timing and volume fluctuate, it may lead to a reduction in our sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales to a relatively small number of OEM customers, as opposed to direct retail sales to end customers, comprise a large portion of our revenues. Dell accounted for approximately 55% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. From time to time Dell updates its hardware platforms with new security solutions packages. Our bundled software has been included on Dell platforms since 2006 (including on the Dell Data Protection Access solution (DDPA) that is currently shipping). On March 15, 2013, Dell notified us that it will be replacing the DDPA solution in its next generation of client hardware platforms expected to begin shipping later this year. As it has with other solution upgrades since 2006, Dell has also informed us that it will continue to discuss with Wave opportunities to include our software on new and future Dell platforms and that it plans to continue to include our bundled software with Dell hardware platforms that are currently shipping. However, Dell has not communicated to us any decisions regarding the next platform and we have no assurance that our software will be included in Dell's new or future platforms. If we are not successful in continuing to sell our technologies with Dell's new and future platforms, this could have a material adverse impact on our revenues in years after 2013. Our market is in the early stage of development so we are unable to accurately ascertain the size and growth potential for revenue in such a market. The market for our products and services is still developing and is continually evolving. As a result, substantial uncertainty exists with respect to the size of the market for these products and the level of capital that will be required to meet the evolving technical requirements of the marketplace. 22 Table of Contents Wave's business model relies on an assumed market of tens of millions of units shipping with built-in security hardware and for Wave to be successful selling its version of client and server software products to the users of such units. Because this market remains in the early stage of development there is significant uncertainty with respect to the validity of the future size of the market. If the market for computer systems that utilize our products and services does not grow to the extent necessary for us to realize our business plan, we may not be successful. As this early stage market develops and evolves, significant capital will likely be required to fund the resources needed to meet the changing technological demands of the marketplace. There is uncertainty with respect to the level of capital that may be required to meet these changing technological demands. If the amount of capital resources needed exceeds our ability to obtain such capital, we may not be a viable enterprise. Wave is not established in the industry so we may not be accepted as a supplier or service provider to the market. Wave's offering of products and services represents a highly complex architecture designed to solve many of the security issues currently present with computer systems such as identity theft, fraudulent transactions, virus attacks, unauthorized access to restricted networks and other security problems that users of computer systems generally encounter. We are uncertain as to whether the marketplace will accept our solution to these security problems. We will not be successful if the market does not accept the value proposition that we perceive to be present in our products and services. Although Wave has expended considerable resources in developing technology and products that utilize our technology and in business development activities in an attempt to drive the development of the hardware security market, we do not have a track record as a substantial supplier or service provider to consumers of computer systems. Therefore, uncertainty remains as to whether we will be accepted as a supplier to the enterprise and consumer markets which will likely be necessary for us to be a successful commercial enterprise. Our products have not been accepted as industry standards which may slow their sales growth. We believe platforms adopting integrated hardware security into the PC will become a significant standard feature in the overall PC marketplace. However, our technologies have not been accepted as industry standards. Standards for trusted computing are still evolving. To be successful we must obtain acceptance of our technologies as industry standards, modify our products and services to meet whatever industry standards ultimately develop and/or adapt our products to be complementary to whatever these standards become. If we fail to do any of these we will not be successful in commercializing our technology; and therefore, we will not generate sales to fund our operations and develop into a self-sustaining, profitable business. If we do not keep up with technological changes our product development and business growth will suffer. Because the market in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology, changes in customer requirements, frequent new products, service introductions and enhancements and emerging industry standards, our success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to improve our products, develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, maintain our products compatibility with changing computer system platforms, respond to evolving customer requirements and achieve market acceptance on a timely and cost effective basis. If we do not identify, develop, manufacture, market and support new products and deploy new services effectively and timely our business will not grow, our financial results will suffer and we may not have the ability to remain in business. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to potential security breaches of our software products. Although we have implemented in our products various security mechanisms, our products and services may nevertheless be vulnerable to break-ins, piracy and similar disruptive problems caused by Internet users. Any of these disruptions would harm our business. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect products and information in electronic form. Computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer systems of users of our products which may result in significant liability to us and may also deter potential customers. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary electronic content or cause interruptions in our operations and those of our strategic partners. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Our attempts to implement contracts that limit our liability to our customers, including liability arising from a failure of security features contained in our products and services, may not be enforceable. We currently do not have product liability insurance to protect against these risks. Competition and competing technologies may render some or all of our products non-competitive or obsolete. An increasing number of market entrants have introduced or are developing products and services that compete with Wave's. Our competitors may be able to develop products and services that are more attractive to customers than our products and services. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Also, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and larger customer bases that could be leveraged to enable them to gain market share or product acceptance to our detriment. Wave's potential competitors include security solutions providers such as RSA Security, Inc. (a division of EMC), Symantec, Computer Associates, Verisign, Inc., Entrust, Inc., Utimaco (acquired by Sophos), PGP (acquired by Symantec), Credant (acquired by Dell), SafeBoot (acquired by McAfee), SafeNet, WinMagic, Secude (acquired by SAP) and GuardianEdge (acquired by Symantec) and major systems integrators such as IBM, HP and EDS. In addition, Wave competes with other client security applications companies that are developing trusted computing applications including Softex Incorporated, Phoenix Technologies Ltd., Infineon Technologies AG and Microsoft. Other companies have developed or are developing technologies that are, or may become, the basis for competitive products in the field of security and electronic content distribution. Some of those technologies may have an approach or means of processing that is entirely different from ours. Existing or new competitors may develop products that are superior to ours or that otherwise achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Due to Wave's early stage and lower relative name recognition compared to many of our competitors and potential competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace is vulnerable. We have a high dependence on relationships with strategic partners that must continue or our ability to successfully produce and market our products will be impaired. Due in large part to Wave's early stage and lower name recognition we depend upon strategic partners such as large, well established personal computer and semiconductor manufacturers and computer systems' integrators to adopt our products and services within the Trusted Computing marketplace. These companies may choose not to use our products and could develop or market products or technologies that compete directly with us. We cannot predict whether these third parties will commit the resources necessary to achieve broad-based commercial acceptance of our technology. 24 Table of Contents Any delay in the use of our technology by these partners could impede or prohibit the commercial acceptance of our products. Although we have established some binding commitments from some of our strategic partners there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into additional definitive agreements or that the terms of such agreements will be satisfactory. It will be necessary for Wave to expand upon our current business relationships with our partners, or form new ones, in order to sell more products and services for Wave to become a viable, self-sufficient enterprise. Product defects or development delays may limit our ability to sell our products. We may experience delays in the development of our new products and services and the added features and functionality to our existing products and services that our customers and prospective customers are demanding. If we are unable to successfully develop products that contain the features and functionality being demanded by these customers and prospective customers in a timely manner, we may lose business to our competitors. In addition, despite testing by us and potential customers, it is possible that our products may nevertheless contain defects. Development delays or defects could have a material adverse effect on our business if such defects and delays result in our inability to meet the market's demand. If we lose our key personnel, or fail to attract and retain additional personnel, we will be unable to continue to develop our products and technology. We believe that our future success depends upon the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Our industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire any additional personnel necessary for our growth. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future and the failure of us to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights and others could infringe on or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to enjoy or obtain protection for our products and technologies under United States and foreign patent laws, copyright laws and other intellectual property laws and to preserve our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that any patent owned or licensed by us will provide us with adequate protection or will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented. We rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which we protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and contract partners. However, our confidentiality agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for these breaches. Our trade secrets may become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We also rely on intellectual property laws to prevent the unauthorized duplication of our software and hardware products. However, intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our technology. We have registered various trademark and service mark registrations with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Wave may apply for additional name and logo marks in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in the future but we cannot assure you that registration of any of these trademarks will be granted. 25 Table of Contents We conduct a portion of our operations in the State of Israel and, therefore, political, economic and military instability in Israel and its region may adversely affect our business. Safend's operations are located in the State of Israel which will constitute a material portion of our business. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has caused security and economic problems in Israel. Although Israel has entered into peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan, and various agreements with the Palestinian Authority, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians and others, since September 2000. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Gaza Strip by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created heightened unrest and uncertainty in the region. In mid-2006, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Shiite Islamist militia group based in Lebanon, and in June 2007, there was an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip. From December 2008 through January 2009, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, which involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel and which negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Presently, there is great international concern in connection with Iran's efforts to develop and enrich uranium which could lead to the development of nuclear weapons. Iran's successful enrichment of uranium could significantly alter the geopolitical landscape in the Middle East, including the threat of international war, which could significantly impact business conditions in Israel. Recent political uprisings, regime changes and social unrest in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political relationships that exist between Israel and these countries and have raised new concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict. Among other things, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace through changes in oil and gas prices. Further escalation of tensions or violence might result in a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations in Israel and the portion of our business related to our operations there. Safend received Israeli government grants for certain of its research and development activities. The terms of these grants may require Safend to meet certain requirements in order to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. Safend may be required to pay penalties in addition to repayment of the grants. Such grants may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. The research and development efforts of Safend have been financed, in part, through grants that Safend has received from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS. Safend therefore must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, and related regulations, or the Research Law regarding the intellectual property and products generated by Safend. The terms of these grants and the Research Law restrict the transfer of know-how if such know-how is related to products, know-how and/or technologies which were developed using the OCS grants, and the transfer of manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies and/or know-how outside of Israel without the prior approval, pursuant to the Research Law, of the appropriate authority of the OCS. Therefore, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee will be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of rights related to certain of Safend's technologies which have been developed with OCS funding. Safend may not receive the required approvals should it wish to transfer this technology and/or development outside of Israel in the future. Furthermore, the OCS may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which Safend transfers technology or development out of Israel. Overseas transfers of technology, manufacturing and/or development from OCS funded programs, even if approved by the OCS, may be subject to 26 Table of Contents restrictions set forth in the Research Law. We cannot be certain that any approval of the OCS will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If Safend fails to comply with the conditions imposed by the OCS, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any OCS payments previously received by Safend, together with interest and penalties, and may also be subject to criminal penalties. We may not be able to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Safend if we fail to integrate Safend successfully, which could reduce our profitability. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Safend will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the business of Safend successfully and efficiently with our business. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The integration process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. If we are not successful in this integration, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our management will be required to dedicate significant time and effort to this integration process, which could divert their attention from other business concerns. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other relationships, a loss of key employees, and diversion of management's attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the two companies include, among others: •challenges associated with minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; •addressing differences in the business cultures of Wave and Safend; •coordinating geographically separate organizations which may be subject to additional complications resulting from being geographically distant from our other operations; •coordinating and combining international operations, information systems, relationships, and facilities, and eliminating duplicative operations; •retaining key employees and maintaining employee moral; •unanticipated changes in general business or market conditions that might interfere with our ability to carry out all of its integration plans; and •preserving important strategic and customer relationships. In addition, even if Safend's operations are integrated successfully with ours, we may not realize the full potential benefits of the transaction, including the leveraging of production and combined research and development that are expected. Such benefits may not be achieved within our anticipated time frame, or at all. Regulation of international transactions may limit our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. Most of our software products are controlled under various United States export control laws and regulations and may require export licenses for certain exports of the products and components outside of the United States and Canada. With respect to our EMBASSY Trust Suite and EMBASSY Trust Server software applications, we have applied for and received export classifications that allow us to export our products without a license and with no restrictions to any country throughout the world with the exception of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. Any new product offerings will be subject to review by the Bureau of Export Administration to determine what export classification they will receive. Enhancements to existing products may be 27 Table of Contents subject to review by the Bureau of Export Administration to determine their export classification. Some of our partners demand that our products be allowed to be exported without restrictions and/or reporting requirements. Current export regulations have, in part, allowed us to receive the desired classification without undue cost or effort. However, the export regulations may be modified at any time. Currently we are allowed to export the products for which we have received classification in an unrestricted manner without a license. However, modifications to the export regulations could prevent us from exporting our existing and future products in an unrestricted manner without a license. Such modifications could also make it difficult to receive the desired classification. If export regulations were to be modified in such a way, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage with respect to selling our products internationally. In addition, import and export regulations of encryption/decryption technology vary from country to country. We may be subject to different statutory or regulatory controls in different foreign jurisdictions, and as such, our technology may not be permitted in these foreign jurisdictions. Violations of foreign regulations or regulation of international transactions could prevent us from being able to sell our products in international markets. Our success depends in large part to having access to international markets. A violation of foreign regulations could limit our access to such markets and have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our stock price is volatile. The price of our Class A Common Stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors such as: •quarterly variations in operating results; •announcements of technological innovations, new products, acquisitions, capital commitments or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and •news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for technology-related companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and any of our other securities for which a market develops regardless of our operating performance. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that have experienced periods of volatility in the market price for their securities. It is possible that we could become the target of litigation of this kind that would require substantial management attention and expense. The diversion of management's attention and capital resources could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any negative publicity or perceived negative publicity of any such litigation could have an adverse impact on our business. Sales of our common stock in our ATM Program, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. During January 2012, we entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement ("2012 ATM") (with MLV & Co. LLC ("MLV") under which we are able to sell shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $20,000,000 from time to time through MLV. Continued sales of our common stock, if any, under the 2012 ATM will depend upon market conditions and other factors to be determined by us and may be made in negotiated transactions or transactions that are deemed to be "at the market offerings" as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Future sales of our common stock are not guaranteed, and there are no firm commitments to receive funding under the 2012 ATM. 28 Table of Contents The issuance from time to time of these new shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could have the effect of depressing the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to conflicts of interest that could adversely slow our corporate governance process. Our current Board of Directors does not include any representatives of our strategic partners. However, our Board of Directors has included in the past and may include in the future, representatives of our strategic partners. It is possible that those corporations may be competing against us, or each other, directly or indirectly. A director who also represents another company may voluntarily abstain from voting on matters where there could be conflicts of interest. Even if such a director does abstain, his presence on the Board could affect the process or the results of the Board's deliberations. We have adopted no policies or procedures to reduce or avoid such conflicts. If such conflicts of interest arise they may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Governmental regulation may slow our growth and decrease our profitability. There are relatively few laws or regulations that apply directly to the Internet. Because our business is dependent, in significant respect, on the Internet, the adoption of new local, state, national or international laws or regulations may decrease the growth of Internet usage or the acceptance of Internet commerce which could decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Tax authorities in a number of states are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales, use and income taxes. If we make any acquisitions we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available we may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we do undertake any transaction of this sort the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market it may harm our stock price and make it more difficult to sell shares. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain our NASDAQ listing NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) requires that the bid price for our common stock not fall below $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive trading days. Because of the volatility in our common stock price there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with this requirement. If our minimum bid price remains below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, under the current NASDAQ Capital Market rules, we will have a period of 180 days to attain compliance by meeting the minimum bid price requirement for 10 consecutive days during the compliance period. In the event that we do not regain compliance during such 180 day period we would be entitled to an additional 180 day compliance period if we meet the other initial listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market at the end of such initial 180 day period. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market we expect that our common stock would be traded on the 29 Table of Contents Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTC-BB). The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market for any reason it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price and make it more difficult to sell your shares of our common stock. On July 13, 2012, the Company received notification from the Listing Qualifications division of The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the Company's Class A common stock is subject to potential delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market because for a period of 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company's Class A common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) (the "Bid Price Rule"). This notice was the subject of the Company's filing on Form 8-K filed on July 13, 2012. The NASDAQ notice indicated that, in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), the Company would be provided 180 calendar days, or until January 10, 2013, to regain compliance. The notice also provided that the Company failed to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule before January 10, 2013 but otherwise met all of the other applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, then the Company may be eligible to have an additional 180 calendar days, or until July 9, 2013, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule. On January 10, 2013, the Company received notification from the Listing Qualifications division of the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the Company is eligible for an additional 180 calendar days, or until July 8, 2013, to regain compliance. The Company plans to make a diligent effort to maintain its listing, but we can make no assurances that we will be able to do so. We may be subject to claims and additional costs as a result of our determination in March 2012 that certain previously filed financial statements relating to the Company's acquired subsidiary, Safend, should not be relied upon. In March 2012, the Company determined that previously filed financial statements of the Company's acquired subsidiary, Safend, relating to certain pre-acquisition periods should not be relied upon due to certain accounting errors, as further described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 15, 2012. To date, the Company has not filed restated pre-acquisition Safend financial statements. As a result, there is a risk that claims relating to these errors could be brought against us, including by purchasers of our shares in offerings made by us under our shelf registration statement. Since March 15, 2012, we have sold 12,691,399 shares, along with warrants exercisable for 2,956,287 shares, for an aggregate of approximately $11,719,000 under such registration statement. Any such claims or related litigation could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 