Item 1A. Risk Factors SJI and its subsidiaries operate in an environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. SJI has identified the following risk factors that could cause SJI’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors and should also be aware that this list is not all inclusive of existing risks. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and SJI cannot predict those risks or the extent to which they may affect SJI’s businesses or financial performance. · SJI is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Should SJI’s subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make other payments to SJI for financial, regulatory, legal or other reasons, SJI’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited. SJI’s stock price could be adversely affected as a result. · SJI’s business activities are concentrated in southern New Jersey. Changes in the economies of southern New Jersey and surrounding regions could negatively impact the growth opportunities available to SJI and the financial condition of customers and prospects of SJI. · SJI may not be able to respond effectively to competition, which may negatively impact SJI’s financial performance or condition. Regulatory initiatives may provide or enhance opportunities for competitors that could reduce utility income obtained from existing or prospective customers. Also, competitors in all of SJI’s business lines may be able to provide superior or less costly products or services based upon currently available or newly developed technologies. · Warm weather or high commodity costs could result in reduced demand for some of SJI’s energy products and services. While SJI’s utility has a temperature adjustment clause that protects its revenues and gross margin against temperatures that are higher than normal, the clause does not protect against changes in the amount of gas that customers use at specific temperature levels. Also, customers could reduce gas consumption in response to high gas costs. Lower customer energy utilization levels will reduce SJI’s net income. · High natural gas prices could cause more of SJI’s receivables to be uncollectible. Higher levels of uncollectibles from either residential or commercial customers would negatively impact SJI’s income and could result in higher working capital requirements. · SJI’s net income could decrease if it is required to incur additional costs to comply with new governmental safety, health or environmental legislation. SJI is subject to extensive and changing federal and state laws and regulations that impact many aspects of its business; including the storage, transportation and distribution of natural gas, as well as the remediation of environmental contamination at former manufactured gas plant facilities. · SJI’s wholesale commodity marketing business is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe money or energy to SJI will not be able to meet their obligations for operational or financial reasons. SJI could be forced to buy or sell commodity at a loss as a result of such failure. Such a failure, if large enough, could also impact SJI’s liquidity. · Increasing interest rates will negatively impact the net income of SJI. Several of SJI’s subsidiaries are capital intensive, resulting in the incurrence of significant amounts of debt financing. While almost all of SJI’s existing long-term debt has been issued at fixed rates, new issues of long-term debt and all variable rate short-term debt is exposed to the impact of rising interest rates. · Hedging activities of the company designed to protect against commodity price or interest rate risk may cause fluctuations in reported financial results and SJI’s stock price could be adversely affected as a result. These fluctuations may result in changes in SJI’s forecasted transactions. · The inability to obtain natural gas would negatively impact the financial performance of SJI. Several of SJI’s subsidiaries have businesses based upon the ability to deliver natural gas to customers. Disruption in the production of natural gas or transportation of that gas to SJI from its suppliers, could prevent SJI from completing sales to its customers. · Adverse results in legal proceedings could be detrimental to the financial condition of SJI. Management does not expect the disposition of any known claims to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or income. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings can be unpredictable and can result in adverse judgments. SJI -13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 