Item 1A. Risk Factors SJI and its subsidiaries operate in an environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. SJI has identified the following risk factors that could cause SJI’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors and should also be aware that this list is not all inclusive of existing risks. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and SJI cannot predict those risks or the extent to which they may affect SJI’s businesses or financial performance. SJI is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Should SJI’s subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make other payments to SJI for financial, regulatory, legal or other reasons, SJI’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited. SJI’s stock price could be adversely affected as a result. SJI’s business activities are concentrated in southern New Jersey. Changes in the economies of southern New Jersey and surrounding regions could negatively impact the growth opportunities available to SJI and the financial condition of customers and prospects of SJI. SJI - 8 Changes in the regulatory environment or unfavorable rate regulation at its utility may have an unfavorable impact on SJI’s financial performance or condition. SJI’s utility business is regulated by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities which has authority over many of the activities of the business including, but not limited to, the rates it charges to its customers, the amount and type of securities it can issue, the nature of investments it can make, the nature and quality of services it provides, safety standards and other matters. The extent to which the actions of regulatory commissions restrict or delay SJG’s ability to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital and/or fully recover operating costs may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. SJI may not be able to respond effectively to competition, which may negatively impact SJI’s financial performance or condition. Regulatory initiatives may provide or enhance opportunities for competitors that could reduce utility income obtained from existing or prospective customers. Also, competitors in all of SJI’s business lines may be able to provide superior or less costly products or services based upon currently available or newly developed technologies. Warm weather, high commodity costs, or customer conservation initiatives could result in reduced demand for some of SJI’s energy products and services. While SJI’s utility currently has a conservation incentive program clause that protects its revenues and gross margin against usage that is lower than a set level, the clause is currently approved as a three-year pilot program. Should this clause expire without replacement, lower customer energy utilization levels would likely reduce SJI’s net income. High natural gas prices could cause more of SJI’s receivables to be uncollectible. Higher levels of uncollectibles from either residential or commercial customers would negatively impact SJI’s income and could result in higher working capital requirements. SJI’s net income could decrease if it is required to incur additional costs to comply with new governmental safety, health or environmental legislation. SJI is subject to extensive and changing federal and state laws and regulations that impact many aspects of its business; including the storage, transportation and distribution of natural gas, as well as the remediation of environmental contamination at former manufactured gas plant facilities. SJI’s wholesale commodity marketing business is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe money or energy to SJI will not be able to meet their obligations for operational or financial reasons. SJI could be forced to buy or sell commodity at a loss as a result of such failure. Such a failure, if large enough, could also impact SJI’s liquidity. Increasing interest rates will negatively impact the net income of SJI. Several of SJI’s subsidiaries are capital intensive, resulting in the incurrence of significant amounts of debt financing. While almost all of SJI’s existing long-term debt has been issued at fixed rates, new issues of long-term debt and all variable rate short-term debt are exposed to the impact of rising interest rates. A downgrade in SJG’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access adequate and cost effective capital. SJG’s ability to obtain adequate and cost effective capital depends largely on its credit ratings, which are greatly influenced by financial condition and results of operations. If the rating agencies downgrade SJG’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, SJG’s borrowing costs would increase. In addition, SJG would likely be required to pay higher interest rates in future financings and potential funding sources would likely decrease. To the extent that a decline in SJG’s credit rating has a negative effect on SJI, SJI could be required to provide additional support to certain counterparties of the wholesale gas operations. . Hedging activities of the company designed to protect against commodity price or interest rate risk may cause fluctuations in reported financial results and SJI’s stock price could be adversely affected as a result. Although SJI enters into various contracts to hedge the value of energy assets, liabilities, firm commitments or forecasted transactions, the timing of the recognition of gains or losses on these economic hedges in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America does not always match up with the gains or losses on the items being hedged. The difference in accounting can result in volatility in reported results, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the dates the transactions were consummated. The inability to obtain natural gas would negatively impact the financial performance of SJI. Several of SJI’s subsidiaries have businesses based upon the ability to deliver natural gas to customers. Disruption in the production of natural gas or transportation of that gas to SJI from its suppliers, could prevent SJI from completing sales to its customers. SJI - 9 Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. SJI’s gas distribution activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, mechanical problems, natural disasters or terrorist activities which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, SJI maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect SJI’s financial position and results of operations. Adverse results in legal proceedings could be detrimental to the financial condition of SJI. Management does not expect the disposition of any known claims to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or net income. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings can be unpredictable and can result in adverse judgments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 