Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the Company’s common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The current slow-down of consumer spending is negatively impacting our domestic retailers, which impacts their financial operations and their access to capital to fund growth, which increases and concentrates our credit risk. Certain of our retailers have announced significantly lower growth expectations and in some cases are reducing the number of stores in operation. Both the contraction in consumer spending and the tightening of the credit markets have created an unfavorable business environment for our retailers, especially the retailers who use debt to finance their inventory purchases and other operating capital requirements. If our retailers are unable to obtain financing for their inventory purchases and to fund their operations, it could result in delayed payment or non-payment of amounts owed to us and/or a reduction in the number of sales we make to such retailers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For all of our distribution channels, including domestic retailers, a decline in consumer spending due to unfavorable economic and consumer credit conditions could create an environment of increasing price discounts which would negatively impact our product revenues, gross margins and earnings. Our success in generating sales of our products to consumers depends upon a number of factors, including economic factors impacting disposable consumer income. These factors include economic conditions and factors such as employment, general business conditions, consumer confidence, prevailing interest rates and changes in tax laws. In addition, spending patterns of consumers may be affected by changes in the amount or severity of inclement weather, the acceptability of U.S. brands in international markets and the growth or decline of global footwear markets. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending or economic conditions. Sales to the U.S. Government, which are becoming an increasingly significant portion of our net sales, may not continue at current levels, or we may not be able to fill these orders due to facility constraints. Our ability to continue to generate sales growth in this channel is partially dependent upon the current U.S. presidential administration’s policies regarding troop deployments in various global regions requiring our specialized footwear. Additionally, given that a substantial portion of our military sales must be produced by our domestic manufacturing facility, we may be unable to fill orders which we receive due to constraints in the capacity of that facility. Being unable to fill orders on a timely basis could cause us to lose future orders from these sources. Given that such orders can be sporadic, we may incur fixed costs associated with this operation even if the orders do not support such levels of fixed costs. If government orders do not continue at current levels, or if we are unable to fill orders, it would have a negative impact on our earnings growth and results of operations. -8- Table of Contents Changes in the price or availability of raw materials could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results, particularly our gross margins. We purchase raw materials and component parts from various suppliers to be used in the manufacturing of our products. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials or component parts could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or our inability to successfully market our products. These occurrences would negatively affect our business, product gross margins and results of operations. Our product costs are subject to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations (particularly with respect to the Euro and Chinese Renminbi), oil price increases and higher foreign labor costs. If we are unable to increase our selling prices to offset such cost increases, our revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted. If petroleum costs were to increase it could result in significantly higher freight costs to our company, as we rely on transport companies to deliver our products from abroad to our distribution centers, and in some cases directly to our customers. Increased petroleum costs also affect our manufacturing costs, as rubber is a key component of our footwear. Foreign currency fluctuations and increased labor cost abroad would be problematic given our dependence on manufacturing in China and distribution through our European subsidiary. Our profit margins may decrease as foreign currency fluctuates or prices of petroleum and foreign labor increase and we are unable to pass on those additional costs to our customers. We have experienced sequential quarterly declines in our gross margins in 2008. Our gross margins could continue to experience pressure in 2009 due to conditions in the current retail environment. We are experiencing consolidation in our raw materials supply base for outsoles and leather, which presents overall risks in our supply base. Interruptions in supply of raw materials or increased costs for such raw materials could negatively impact both our domestic manufacturing facility as well as products produced by our international manufacturing partners, both of which could negatively impact our customer relationships, our ability to fill current and future orders and our results of operations. Our business could be negatively affected by delays or disruptions in the transition to our new distribution facility. We plan to close our two distribution centers in La Crosse, Wisconsin and open our new distribution center in Indianapolis, Indiana during the first half of 2009. If the final construction of the new facility and the related operating systems are delayed, or if the transition of inventories between the locations is interrupted, we may experience disruptions in shipping products to our customers or higher initial start-up costs than originally planned. Any such delay or disruption would adversely affect our results of operations. Our newly established European subsidiary, LaCrosse Europe ApS, increases our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations and the transition of customers to our new subsidiary may not be successful. Foreign operations through our European subsidiary increases our exposure to risks associated with foreign currency transactions and compliance with foreign laws. Additionally, if we fail to successfully transition our European customer base from our former European distributor to our newly established subsidiary, we could lose existing customers or be required to grant additional customer incentives which are less favorable than the incentives we provided to our prior distribution partner. Also, our distribution center for Europe is owned and -9- Table of Contents managed by an independent third party, which increases our risks associated with inventory management and timely and accurate customer shipments. Any negative outcome related to these risks would harm our results of operations. Our profitability is significantly dependent upon future effective tax rates for federal, state and international taxing jurisdictions. The new U.S. President’s administration has indicated that tax rates on corporations may be increased in coming periods. Higher effective U.S. tax rates would lower our earnings performance and restrict our ability to invest in various areas of our business. Future changes to rates of taxation in areas outside of the U.S. could also negatively impact our future earnings performance. We conduct a significant portion of our manufacturing activities and a certain portion of our net sales occurs outside the U.S., and therefore, we are subject to the risks of international commerce. Also, any adverse political conditions or governmental actions, including the imposition of duties and quotas, internally within China (where the majority of our third party manufacturers are concentrated) or externally with the United States and Europe could disrupt our supply of product to customers. We use third party manufacturers located in foreign countries, primarily in China, to manufacture the majority of our products, including all of our LACROSSE® branded products. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • delays associated with the manufacture, transportation and delivery of foreign-sourced products; • tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; • delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; • foreign currency fluctuations (particularly with respect to the Euro and Chinese Renminbi), a risk which we do not currently seek to mitigate through hedging transactions; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • changing economic conditions; • restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; • changes in governmental policies and regulations; • political unrest, terrorism or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; • expropriation and nationalization; • difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; • difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; • limited capital of foreign distributors and the possibility that such distributors may terminate their operations or their relationships with us; and • concentration of credit risk, currency, and political risks associated with international distributors. International distributors represented 2% of our net sales in 2008. Additionally, although net sales outside of the U.S. did not constitute a significant portion of our revenues in 2008, we expect our international sales will grow over the next few years. Our ability to continue to do business in international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in emerging markets. We are also subject to additional risk as the Company has a limited number of foreign distributors, who may have inadequate capital to continue operations over the long-term. Sales to the international markets are achieved through those foreign distributors and our wholly owned subsidiary. The Company’s sales and sales growth may be adversely affected if the -10- Table of Contents relationships with those distributors were to deteriorate and we are unable to engage suitable alternatives in a timely manner. Because we depend on third party manufacturers, we face challenges in maintaining a timely supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience delay or interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall or delay in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. Third party manufacturers produce approximately three-fourths of our footwear products. Currently, we manufacture footwear with third party manufacturers primarily located in China, Thailand and The Netherlands. We depend on these manufacturers’ ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third party manufacturers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. Due to various potential factors outside of our control, one or more of our third party manufacturers may be unable to continue meeting our production requirements. Also, certain of our third party manufacturers have manufacturing engagements with companies that are much larger than we are and whose production needs are much greater than ours. As a result, such manufacturers may choose to devote additional resources to the production of products other than ours if capacity is limited. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these third party manufacturers, and any of them could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third party manufacturers. We may be unable to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may be unable to substitute suitable alternative third party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is substantially affected by weather conditions, and sustained periods of warm and/or dry weather can negatively impact our sales. Additionally, such weather conditions may negatively impact our inventory levels and subsequent period sales. We sell our products into two primary markets, work and outdoor. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 41% of our annual revenues were to the outdoor market. This market segment is highly seasonal and weather dependent. Sales of these products are largely dependent on the timing and severity of weather in the different regions of the United States and Europe. During sustained periods of warm and/or dry weather conditions, certain key categories in the outdoor market may be negatively impacted, including hunting, hiking and cold weather products, as consumers postpone participation in those activities pending the resumption of more conducive weather patterns. Additionally, given our advance ordering timelines, such reduced demand during normal outdoor market seasons may also negatively impact our inventory levels and subsequent period profits as such excess inventories are sold. Failure to efficiently import foreign sourced products could result in decreased margins, cancelled orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide. Labor disputes at various ports create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak importing seasons, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, -11- Table of Contents potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings. Furthermore, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States or into our other sales markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers’ orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations and declines in performance, as well as fashion risks and rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions and other factors affecting demand. Furthermore, the footwear industry has relatively long lead times for the design and manufacture of products. Consequently, we must commit to production based on our forecasts of consumer demand. If we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Labor disruptions or disruptions due to natural disasters or casualty losses at one of our distribution facilities or our domestic manufacturing facility could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some of our employees at our distribution and manufacturing facilities are organized in labor unions. Our inability to renew on favorable terms the collective bargaining agreements between us and the unions that represent our employees, or any strike, work stoppage or other labor disruption could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any natural disaster or other serious disruption at one of these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or manmade cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to use our warehouse as a docking location for our products. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our financial success may be limited by the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and by the success of such retail customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products and to the success of such customers in selling our products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers’ orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. Our five largest retail customers accounted for approximately one-fifth of our revenues in 2008. If any of our major retail customers experiences a significant downturn in their business or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. In addition, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. If a significant customer -12- Table of Contents to whom we have extended credit experiences financial difficulties, our bad debt expense may increase relative to revenues in the future, which would adversely impact our net income and cash flow. We face significant competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have products with similar characteristics, such as design and materials, to a number of our products. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. Our competitors include footwear manufacturers, fashion-oriented footwear marketers, vertically integrated specialty stores and retailers of private label products. The principal competitive differentiators in our industry include product design, product performance, quality, brand image, price, marketing and promotion, customer support and service, the ability to meet delivery commitments to retailers, obtaining access to retail outlets and sufficient floor space. A number of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial resources than we have; • more comprehensive product lines than ours; • broader market presence than we have in retail outlets, or have their own retail outlets; • greater distribution capabilities than we have; • stronger brand recognition than we have; and • substantially greater product advertising budgets than we do. Our competitors’ greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, a major marketing or promotional success or technological innovation by one of our competitors could adversely impact our competitive position. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline and our financial condition may deteriorate. In addition, a growing trend in the footwear industry is for dealers and distributors to source product directly from overseas manufacturers in order to increase profitability by eliminating the wholesale distributor or manufacturer. While dealers and distributors have not historically manufactured and developed new and innovative products, if consumers largely accept the directly sourced products, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to meet changing consumer preferences and demands. The footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Our success depends in large part on our ability to continuously develop, market and deliver innovative and functional products that are competitive with other brands in our market. In addition, we must design and manufacture products that appeal to many consumer segments at a range of price points. While we continually update our product line with new and innovative products, our products may not continue to be popular and new products we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. Our failure to anticipate, identify and react to shifts in consumer preferences and maintain a strong brand image could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly harm our competitive position and reduce future revenues. Protecting our intellectual property is an important factor in maintaining our brand and our competitive position in the footwear industry. If we do not or are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We currently hold a number of patents and trademarks and have -13- Table of Contents patent and trademark applications pending. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and applicable laws provide only limited protection. We have a number of licensing agreements, both for product, camouflage patterns and trademarks, which are significant to our business. If the Company is unable to renew the agreements, and suitable replacements are not available in a timely manner, this may reduce revenues. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. For example, we and our suppliers purchase GORE-TEX® waterproof fabric directly from W.L. Gore and Associates (“Gore”), for both our LaCrosse and Danner footwear. Over three-fourths of Danner styles are GORE-TEX® lined. While we consider our relationship with Gore to be good, if Gore were to terminate our agreements, the time required to obtain substitute materials could interrupt our production cycle. Further, consumers may be unwilling to accept any such replacement material. Any termination or delay in our supply of GORE-TEX® waterproof fabric or the loss of our ability to use the GORE-TEX® mark in association with our products, or in the procurement of any other key product component, could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our business. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel, including Joseph P. Schneider, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and David P. Carlson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, product development engineers, sales people, and others. We face intense competition for such individuals throughout the footwear and work and outdoor products industries. Not being able to attract or retain these employees could have a material adverse effect on revenues and earnings. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility we may be unable to maintain existing, or secure additional financing, and repayment obligations on our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated. Our revolving credit facility contains financial and operating covenants with which we must comply. Our continued compliance with these covenants is dependent on our financial results, which are subject to fluctuation as described elsewhere in these risk factors. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the future or if our lender does not agree to waive any future non-compliance, we may be unable to borrow funds and any outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due and payable, which could harm our business. At December 31, 2008 we had no outstanding borrowing under this credit facility. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Wisconsin corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: § classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year; § do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and § establish advance notice and other procedural requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting -14- Table of Contents These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control and/or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Subchapter XI of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law includes provisions that may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 