Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, future operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. -7- Table of Contents Sales to the U.S. Government, which are becoming an increasingly significant portion of our net sales, may not continue at current levels, or we may not be able to fill these orders due to facility constraints. Additionally, we may continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly revenue performance due to the timing of orders and requested shipment dates for U.S. government contract orders. Our ability to continue to generate sales growth in the government channel is partially dependent upon a wide range of factors, some of which are outside of our ability to control. Such factors include the current U.S. government’s policies regarding troop deployments in various global regions requiring our specialized footwear, the potential for reductions in the U.S. budget, our ability to meet aggressive delivery schedules, and increased competition from other footwear suppliers who may compete more effectively on the basis of price. Additionally, a substantial portion of our U.S. government sales must be produced by our domestic manufacturing facility. We may experience disruptions in manufacturing and shipping products to our customers. Any such delay or disruption would adversely affect our results of operations. Being unable to fill orders on a timely basis could cause us to lose future orders from these sources and other customers in the work, law enforcement, Japanese and other markets who depend on our U.S.-manufactured Danner footwear being crafted to the very highest standards and being delivered on schedule. Given that government orders can be sporadic, we may incur fixed costs associated with this operation even if the orders do not support such levels of fixed costs. If government orders do not continue at current levels, or if we are unable to fill orders, it would have a negative impact on our earnings and results of operations. For all of our distribution channels, including domestic retailers, a deterioration in the general business environment and lack of growth in consumer spending due to unfavorable economic and consumer credit conditions could create an environment of increasing price discounts which would negatively impact our revenues, gross margins and earnings. Our success in generating sales of our products to consumers depends upon a number of factors, including economic factors impacting disposable consumer income. These economic factors include considerations such as employment levels, general business conditions, consumer confidence, prevailing interest rates and changes in tax laws. In addition, spending patterns of consumers may be affected by changes in the amount or severity of inclement weather, the acceptability of U.S. brands in international markets and the growth or decline of global footwear markets. Reduced levels of consumer spending may negatively impact our domestic wholesale partners, which would impact their financial operations and their access to capital to fund growth, which increases and concentrates our credit risk. A contraction in consumer spending and tightening of credit markets creates an unfavorable business environment for our wholesale partners, especially those who use debt to finance their inventory purchases and other operating capital requirements. If our wholesale partners are unable to obtain financing for their inventory purchases and to fund their operations, it could result in delayed payment or non-payment of amounts owed to us and/or a reduction in the number of sales we make to such wholesale partners, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the price or availability of raw materials and labor in the global market, as well as currency fluctuation and other risks associated with international operations could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results, particularly our gross margins. Raw materials and component parts are purchased by us and our third-party manufacturers from various suppliers to be used in the manufacturing of our products. Changes in relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials or component parts could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays or inefficiencies and could affect our ability to successfully market our products. These occurrences would negatively affect our business, product gross margins and results of operations. -8- Table of Contents Our product costs are subject to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations (particularly with respect to the Chinese Renminbi), rubber price increases, oil price increases, higher foreign labor costs and other variable costs associated with our operations including trade laws, duties and taxes, and other product sourcing costs. If we are unable to increase our selling prices to offset such cost increases, our revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted. If petroleum costs were to increase, it could result in significantly higher freight costs to our company, as we rely on transport companies to deliver our products from abroad to our distribution centers, and in some cases directly to our customers. Increased petroleum costs also affect our manufacturing costs. Foreign currency fluctuations and increased labor cost abroad would be problematic given our dependence on manufacturing in Asia and distribution through our European subsidiary. Our profit margins may increase or decrease as foreign currency rates, prices of petroleum, and the cost of foreign labor fluctuate and we are unable to pass those costs on to our customers. We may experience consolidation in our raw materials supply base for outsoles and leather, which presents overall risks in our supply base. Interruptions in supply of raw materials or increased costs for such raw materials could negatively impact the operations of our domestic manufacturing facility as well as our international manufacturing partners. Raw materials supply constraints or price increases could negatively impact our customer relationships, our ability to fill current and future orders and our results of operations. Our European subsidiary, LaCrosse Europe ApS, increases our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations and the outsourcing of our European distribution center. Foreign operations through our European subsidiary increases our exposure to risks associated with foreign currency transactions and compliance with foreign laws. Also, our distribution center for Europe is owned and managed by an independent third party, which increases our risks associated with inventory management and timely and accurate customer shipments. Any negative outcome related to these risks would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our profitability is significantly dependent upon future effective tax rates for federal, state and international taxing jurisdictions. Tax rates on corporations may be increased in future periods. Higher effective federal, state and international tax rates would lower our earnings performance and restrict our ability to invest in various areas of our business. Future changes to rates of taxation in areas outside of the U.S. could also negatively impact our future earnings performance. -9- Table of Contents We conduct a significant portion of our manufacturing activities and a certain portion of our net sales occurs outside the U.S.; therefore we are subject to the risks of international commerce. Also, any adverse political conditions or governmental actions, including the imposition of duties and quotas, internally within China (where the majority of our third-party manufacturers are concentrated) or externally with NAFTA countries and the European Union could disrupt our supply of product to customers. We use third-party manufacturers located in foreign countries, primarily in Asia, to manufacture the majority of our products, including all of our LACROSSE® branded products. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • delays associated with the manufacture, transportation and delivery of foreign-sourced products; • tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; • delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns, labor disputes at various ports or other events; • foreign currency fluctuations (particularly with respect to the Chinese Renminbi), a risk which we do not currently seek to mitigate through hedging transactions; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • changing economic conditions; • restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; • changes in governmental policies and regulations; • political unrest, terrorism or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; • Work slowdowns, stoppages, strikes, expropriation or nationalization affecting our manufacturing partners; • difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; • difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; • limited capital of foreign distributors and the possibility that such distributors may terminate their operations or their relationships with us; and • concentration of credit risk, currency, and political risks associated with international distributors. Additionally, although net sales outside of the U.S. do not constitute a significant portion of our revenues, we expect our international sales will grow over the next few years. Our ability to continue to do business in international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in emerging markets. We are also subject to additional risk as we have a limited number of foreign distributors, who may have inadequate capital to continue operations over the long term. Certain of our sales to the international markets are achieved through those foreign distributors, principally in Japan. Our sales and sales growth may be adversely affected if our relationships with those distributors were to deteriorate and we are unable to engage suitable alternatives in a timely manner. Furthermore, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into NAFTA or European Union countries and into our other sales markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. -10- Table of Contents Because we depend on third-party manufacturers, we face challenges in maintaining a timely supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience delay or interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall or delay in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. Third-party manufacturers located primarily in Asia produce approximately two-thirds of our footwear products. We depend on these manufacturers’ ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third-party manufacturers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. Due to various potential factors outside of our control, one or more of our third-party manufacturers may be unable to continue meeting our production requirements. Also, certain of our third-party manufacturers have manufacturing arrangements with companies that are much larger than we are and whose production needs are much greater than ours. As a result, such manufacturers may choose to devote additional resources to the production of products other than ours if their capacity is limited. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these third-party manufacturers, and any of them could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third-party manufacturers. We may be unable to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our company-operated manufacturing facility due to capacity constraints, and we may be unable to substitute suitable alternative third-party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third-party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is substantially affected by weather conditions, and sustained periods of warm and/or dry weather can negatively impact our sales. Additionally, such weather conditions may negatively impact our inventory levels and subsequent period sales. We sell our products into two primary markets, work and outdoor. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 37% of our annual revenues were to the outdoor market. This market category is highly seasonal and weather dependent. Sales of these products are largely dependent on the timing and severity of weather in the different regions of the United States and Europe. During sustained periods of warm and/or dry weather conditions, certain key categories in the outdoor market may be negatively impacted, including hunting, hiking and cold weather products, as consumers postpone purchases of our products pending the resumption of more conducive weather patterns. Additionally, given our advance ordering timelines, such reduced demand during normal outdoor market seasons may also negatively impact our inventory levels and subsequent period profits as such excess inventories are sold. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers’ orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations and declines in performance, as well as fashion risks and rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions and other factors affecting demand. Furthermore, the footwear industry has relatively long lead times for the design and manufacture of products. Consequently, we must commit to production based on our forecasts of consumer demand. If we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to -11- Table of Contents customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Labor disruptions or disruptions due to natural disasters or casualty losses at one of our distribution facilities or our domestic manufacturing facility could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some of our employees at our Danner distribution and manufacturing facilities are organized in a labor union, the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. Our inability to renew, on favorable terms, the collective bargaining agreement between us and the union that represents our employees, or any strike, work stoppage or other labor disruption could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any natural disaster or other serious disruption at one of these facilities, including our distribution facility in Indianapolis, Indiana, and third-party manufactures due to fire, earthquake, tornadoes, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or manmade cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to use our warehouse for our products. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our financial success may be limited by the strength of our relationships with our wholesale customers and by the success of such wholesale customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our wholesale customers to continue to carry our products and to the success of such customers in selling our products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our wholesale customers. Sales to our wholesale customers are increasingly on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our wholesale customers’ orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and ability to grow our product line. If any of our major wholesale customers experiences a significant downturn in its business or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us in the future. In addition, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. If a significant customer to whom we have extended credit experiences financial difficulties, our bad debt expense may increase relative to revenues in the future, which would adversely impact our net income and cash flow. We face significant competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have products with similar characteristics, such as design and materials, with certain of our products. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. The footwear industry includes footwear manufacturers, fashion-oriented footwear marketers, vertically integrated specialty stores and retailers of private label products. Our principal competitive differentiators include product design, product performance, quality, brand image, marketing and promotion, customer support and service, the ability to meet delivery commitments to retailers, and others. Certain of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and stronger brand recognition than we have. Additionally, they have greater distribution capabilities and a broader market presence in retail outlets, or have their own retail outlets. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline and our financial condition may deteriorate. -12- Table of Contents We may be unable to meet changing consumer preferences and demands. The footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Our success depends in large part on our ability to continuously develop, market and deliver innovative and functional products that are competitive with other brands in our market. In addition, we must design and manufacture products that appeal to many consumer markets at a range of price points. While we continually update our product line with new and innovative products, our products may not continue to be popular and new products we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. Our failure to anticipate, identify and react to shifts in consumer preferences and maintain a strong brand image could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly harm our competitive position and reduce future revenues. Protecting our intellectual property is an important factor in maintaining our brand and our competitive position in the footwear industry. If we do not or are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We currently hold a number of patents and trademarks and have patent and trademark applications pending. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and applicable laws provide only limited protection. We have a number of licensing agreements, both for product, camouflage patterns and trademarks, which are significant to our business. If we are unable to renew the agreements, and suitable replacements are not available in a timely manner, our revenues could be negatively impacted. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. For example, we (and our suppliers) purchase GORE-TEX® waterproof fabric directly from W.L. Gore and Associates (“Gore”), for both our LaCrosse and Danner footwear. Over three-fourths of Danner styles are GORE-TEX® lined. While we consider our relationship with Gore to be good, the agreements with Gore are terminable by either party upon 180 days written notice. If Gore were to terminate our agreements, the time required to obtain substitute materials could interrupt our production cycle. Additionally, consumers may be unwilling to accept any such replacement material. Any termination or delay in our supply of GORE-TEX® waterproof fabric or the loss of our ability to use the GORE-TEX® mark in association with our products, or in the procurement of any other key product component, could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our business. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, product development engineers, sales people, and others. We face competition for such individuals throughout the footwear and work and outdoor products industries. Not being able to attract or retain these employees could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. -13- Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to maintain existing, or secure additional financing, and repayment obligations on any outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated. Our revolving credit facility contains financial and operating covenants with which we must comply. Our continued compliance with these covenants is dependent on our financial results, which are subject to fluctuation as described elsewhere in these risk factors. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the future or if our lender does not agree to waive any future non-compliance, we may be unable to borrow funds and any outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due and payable, which could harm our business. At December 31, 2010 we had no outstanding borrowing under this credit facility. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Wisconsin corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: • classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • establish advance notice and other procedural requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control and/or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Subchapter XI of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law includes provisions that may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -14- Table of Contents 