Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment in shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business The industries within which we compete are cyclical and may experience periodic downturns that may reduce customer demand for our products which, in turn, may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We operate and compete within the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment, silicon wafer and silicon wafer equipment, data storage, LED and precision optics industries. These industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have often resulted in a decrease in demand for capital equipment. Commencing in the third quarter of 2007, we have seen a marked downturn in many of the industries within which we operate and compete. This current downturn has resulted in a reduction in demand for our products which, in turn, has had an adverse impact on our results of operations for 2008. A prolonged continuation of the current downturn in these industries or any future downturn may have an adverse impact on our future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have incurred losses in the past and we may incur losses in the future. If we incur losses in the future, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper our operations, may prevent us from expanding our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We incurred net losses of $4.5 million and $777,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and we recorded net income of $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We also incurred net losses in each of the years ended December 31, 2002 through 2005. We may incur losses in future years due to, among other factors, instability in the industries within which we operate, uncertain economic conditions worldwide or lack of acceptance of our products in the marketplace. If we incur losses in the future, it may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital to the extent needed for our continued operations, particularly if we are unable to maintain profitable operations in the future. Consequently, future losses will result in negative cash flow, which may hamper current operations and may prevent us from expanding our business. We may be unable to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not attain, sustain or increase profitability, our stock price may decline. 16 The industries within which we compete are extremely competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater name recognition than we do and one or more of these competitors could use their greater financial and other resources or greater name recognition to gain market share at our expense. We believe that to remain competitive, we will require significant financial resources in order to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide and to invest in research and development. Many of our existing and potential competitors, including Applied Materials, Inc., Novellus Systems, Inc. and Ebara Corporation, have substantially greater financial resources, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities, larger installed bases of current generation products, as well as greater name recognition than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a larger period of time than we could. Our lack of resources relative to many of our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share, sales and profitability. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our total sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our net revenues and profitability. A significant portion of our total net revenues are generated from a small number of customers. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 43% and 50% of our net revenues during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Two customers each accounted for more than 10% of net revenues during 2008 and 2007. Although the composition of the group comprising our largest customers may vary from year to year, the loss of a significant customer or any reduction in orders by any significant customer, including reductions due to market, economic or competitive conditions in the industries in which we operate could cause a significant decline in our net revenues and profitability. Our ability to increase our net revenues in the future will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our existing customers and the general economy, which are largely beyond our ability to control. Our potential customers may not purchase our products because of their significant cost or because our potential customers are already using a competitor’s product which, in turn, could cause a decline in our sales and profitability. A substantial investment is required to install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor or silicon wafer production line. We believe that once a manufacturer has selected a particular vendor’s capital equipment, that manufacturer generally relies upon that vendor’s equipment for that specific production line application and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of that vendor’s systems. Accordingly, it may be extremely difficult to achieve significant sales to a particular customer once that customer has selected another vendor’s capital equipment unless there are compelling reasons to do so, such as significant performance or cost advantages. Any failure to gain access and achieve sales to new customers will adversely affect the successful commercial adoption of our products and could cause a decline in our sales and profitability. Any significant order cancellations or order deferrals could adversely affect our operating results. 17 Our lack of long-term purchase orders and commitments could lead to a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. Our customers issue purchase orders requesting products they desire to purchase from us, and if we are able and willing to fill those orders, then we fill them under the terms of the purchase orders. Accordingly, we cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of reduced demand for our products that could result from a general economic downturn, from changes in the industries within which we operate, including the entry of new competitors into the market, from the introduction by others of new or improved technology, from an unanticipated shift in the needs of our customers, or from other causes. Some of our product sales cycles are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of our products depend, in significant part, upon the decision of a prospective customer to add new manufacturing capacity or to expand existing manufacturing capacity, both of which typically involve a significant capital commitment. Our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle, often six to twelve months, during which time we may expend substantial funds and management effort. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to risks of inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in operating results over which we have little or no control. Because technology changes rapidly, we may not be able to introduce our products in a timely fashion. Products within the industries in which we operate are subject to rapid technological changes. If we fail to accurately anticipate and adapt to these changes, the products we sell will become obsolete, causing a decline in our sales and profitability. The industries within which we compete are subject to rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions and enhancements which often cause product obsolescence. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and their process capabilities, and to develop and manufacture in a timely manner new products with improved process capabilities. We may incur substantial unanticipated costs to ensure product functionality and reliability early in its products’ life cycles. If we are not successful in the introduction and manufacture of new products or in the development and introduction, in a timely manner, of new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes that satisfy customer needs and achieve market acceptance, our sales and profitability will decline. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our products from a single source or limited group of suppliers, the partial or complete loss of which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies for our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced temporary difficulties in receiving our orders from some of these suppliers. Although we seek to reduce dependence on these sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of these sources could adversely affect our sales and profitability and damage customer relationships by impeding our ability to fulfill our customers’ orders. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components or subassemblies could adversely affect our profit margins and profitability if no lower-priced alternative source is available. 18 We manufacture all of our products at a single facility. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of that facility would result in a decline in our sales and profitability. We manufacture all of our products in a facility located in San Luis Obispo, California. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require sophisticated and costly equipment and a specially designed facility. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, termination of our month-to-month lease of this facility, destruction of or damage to this facility as a result of an earthquake, fire or any other reason, would result in a decline in our sales and profitability. We rely upon sales representatives and distributors for a significant portion of our sales. A disruption in our relationship with any sales representative or distributor could cause our sales and profitability to decline. A significant portion of our sales outside of the United States are made through sales representatives and distributors. The activities of these sales representatives and distributors are not within our control, and they may sell products manufactured by other manufacturers. In addition, in some locations our sales representatives and distributors also provide field service and support to our customers. A reduction in the sales efforts or financial viability of these sales representatives and distributors, or a termination of our relationship with these sales representatives and distributors, could cause our sales and profitability to decline. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or obtain licenses for third parties’ intellectual property and, therefore, we may be subject to one or more intellectual property infringement claims which may adversely affect our sales, earnings and financial resources. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we may not be able to protect our technology adequately, and competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. This may be especially true if we are successful in entering into a joint venture relationship with the 45th Research Institute or another joint venture partner located in the People’s Republic of China. Additionally, patent applications that we may file may not be issued and foreign intellectual property laws, including those of the People’s Republic of China, may not protect our intellectual property rights. There is also a risk that patents licensed by or issued to us will be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and that the rights granted thereunder will not provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around the patents licensed by or issued to us. Litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by us, which by itself could adversely affect our sales, earnings and financial resources. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. In addition, licenses under third parties’ intellectual property rights may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We depend on the services of Alan Strasbaugh and Chuck Schillings, and the loss of either of them could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our continued success depends in part upon the continued service of Alan Strasbaugh, who is our Chairman of the Board, and Chuck Schillings, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer. Each is critical to the overall management of Strasbaugh as well as to the development of our technologies, our culture and our strategic direction. For example, Alan Strasbaugh is a member of our technology committee and provides expertise on the development of our products, and Chuck Schillings is instrumental in developing and maintaining close ties with our customer base. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Strasbaugh and Schillings, neither of these agreements guarantees the service of the individual for a specified period of time. In addition, we do not maintain “key-person” life insurance policies on Messrs. Strasbaugh or Schillings. The loss of either Alan Strasbaugh or Chuck Schillings could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. 19 Our failure to manage our growth effectively could prevent us from achieving our goals. Our strategy envisions a period of growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. The growth of our business will require significant investments of capital and management’s close attention. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, engineers and other personnel. We may be unable to do so. In addition, our failure to successfully manage our growth could result in our sales not increasing commensurately with our capital investments. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are exposed to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. International sales accounted for approximately 29% and 42% of our net revenues during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our international sales are subject to certain risks, including the following: ● tariffs and other trade barriers; ● challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations and providing prompt and effective support to our customers outside the United States; ● difficulties in managing foreign distributors; ● governmental controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of our products, or increase the cost of our operations; ● longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting amounts receivable outside of the United States; ● inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions; ● global or regional economic downturns; and ● geopolitical instability, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, each region in the global markets within which we operate exhibits unique market characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. 20 Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock Because certain actions taken by our prior board of directors may have been inconsistent with the Plan of Dissolution approved by our shareholders and applicable provisions of California law, we could be subject to significant liabilities which would adversely affect our financial condition. On June 3, 2005, our shareholders approved the Plan of Dissolution and thereby voluntarily elected to wind-up and dissolve Strasbaugh (formerly, CTK Windup Corporation). Under the terms of the Plan of Dissolution and California law, after our shareholders approved the Plan of Dissolution and thereby voluntarily elected to wind-up and dissolve Strasbaugh, our activities were to be limited to conducting our business only insofar as necessary for the winding up of our company. Consequently, seeking shareholder approval of, and entering into, the Share Exchange Transaction, may be viewed and ultimately determined to be in conflict with the Plan of Dissolution and the disclosures we made in our Proxy Statement relating to the special meeting of our shareholders at which we sought approval of the Plan of Dissolution. Additionally, the actions we took in connection with declaring and paying certain dividends after our shareholders approved the Plan of Dissolution may be viewed and ultimately determined to be in violation of California law. Although we believe that the activities we conducted after our shareholders approved the Plan of Dissolution were consistent with (i) the Plan of Dissolution, (ii) the disclosures we made in our proxy statement, (iii) applicable provisions of California law and (iv) our former board’s fiduciary duties to our shareholders, it is possible that our shareholders, the SEC, the California Commissioner of Corporations and/or the California Secretary of State may disagree with us. If that were to happen, we may be subject to an action by our shareholders or by a regulatory agency for acting in a manner inconsistent with the Plan of Dissolution and/or an action by the SEC and/or the California Commissioner of Corporations for acting in a manner inconsistent with California law and/or disseminating a proxy statement that contained material misstatements. If it is determined that disclosures contained in our proxy statement seeking approval of the Plan of Dissolution were misleading and, as a result, violated federal or state proxy rules, we may also be subject to fines and other unspecified relief imposed by the SEC and/or the California Commissioner of Corporations. The dollar amount of any damages and/or fines and the costs associated with any potential shareholder lawsuit or action by the SEC, the California Commissioner of Corporations and/or the California Secretary of State is difficult for us to quantify, yet it could be significant. If it is significant, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. After our shareholders approved the Plan of Dissolution and before we obtained shareholder approval for the Share Exchange Transaction, our former board of directors declared and paid “extraordinary dividends” to our shareholders. Under California law, a corporation cannot revoke its election to wind up and dissolve after distributing assets pursuant to the corporation’s election to wind up and dissolve. We believe that the dividends that were declared and paid were “extraordinary dividends” and not dividends made in connection with the distribution of assets pursuant to our election to wind up and dissolve. We also believe that the actions taken by our former board of directors with respect to the declaration of “extraordinary dividends” were consistent with California law. However, a contrary finding – namely, that the dividends were made pursuant to our election to wind up and dissolve and/or our board of directors did not have the power to declare any dividend, other than a dividend in connection with our election to windup and dissolve – could mean that we did not have the power to revoke our election to windup and dissolve, and consequently that we did not have the power to enter into the Share Exchange Transaction or the Series A Preferred Stock Financing or to grant options under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan, or 2007 Plan. If this were the case, we could potentially have violated the laws of the State of California and misrepresented to our shareholders (including the former shareholders of R. H. Strasbaugh) and holders of our issued and outstanding options and warrants that we had the power to enter into the Share Exchange Transaction and the Series A Preferred Stock Financing, to grant options under our 2007 Plan and to issue warrants, as the case may be. As a result, we could be subject to actions by the California Secretary of State, the California Commissioner of Corporations, our shareholders (including the former shareholders of R. H. Strasbaugh) and/or holders of our issued and outstanding options and warrants. The dollar amount of any damages and costs associated with any of these potential actions is difficult for us to quantify, yet it could be significant. If it is significant, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 21 Because of inaccuracies contained in a press release we issued in December 2005, certain of our shareholders may have inaccurately reported certain tax benefits on their federal income tax returns which could result in claims against us. On December 14, 2005, we issued a press release that contained an inaccurate representation of the extraordinary cash dividend issued on December 22, 2005. Contrary to our intention that both the dividends be treated as extraordinary cash dividends, the press release stated that the dividend issued on December 22, 2005 “will be treated for federal income tax purposes as a stock redemption in partial liquidation” of our business. As a result of our inaccurate and contradictory disclosures, some or all of our shareholders may have reported one or both of the distributions we made in 2005 to the IRS as liquidating dividends rather than as extraordinary dividends. Although, in either case, the applicable tax rate would have been the same, if a shareholder characterized the dividend payment as a liquidating dividend rather than as an extraordinary dividend, the shareholder would have received an unintended benefit of being able to deduct the cost basis of the shares in determining the total amount of taxable gain or loss as a result of such distribution. If such a shareholder’s tax return were audited by the IRS, the IRS may conclude that the shareholder should not have been able to utilize such benefit. This conclusion by the IRS could possibly result in an action by the shareholder against us to recover the amount of the lost benefit and any potential penalties imposed on the shareholder by the IRS as a result of the improper characterization. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock The market prices of securities of technology-based companies currently are highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. During 2008, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $2.30 and $0.50, respectively. On April 6, 2009, the last reported sale price of a share of our common stock was $0.40. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to the following factors, in addition to others, many of which are beyond our control: ● changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; ● economic conditions specific to the industries within which we operate; ● the timing of introduction of new systems and technology announcements and releases and ability to transition between product versions; ● changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our products due to lifecycles of our products ending earlier than expected or due to declines in market acceptance of our products; ● delays in our introduction of new products or technological innovations or problems in the functioning of our current or new products or innovations; ● third parties’ infringement of our intellectual property rights; 22 ● changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; ● regulatory developments; ● fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; ● additions or departures of key personnel; and ● future sales of our common stock or other securities. Voting power of a majority of our common stock is held by three shareholders who, as a result, are able to control or exercise significant influence over the outcome of matters to be voted on by our shareholders. Alan Strasbaugh, our Chairman of the Board, Larry Strasbaugh, the brother of Alan Strasbaugh, and Lloyd I. Miller III, have voting power equal to approximately 60% of all votes eligible to be cast at a meeting of our shareholders. As a result of their significant ownership interest, these shareholders will be able to control or exercise significant influence with respect to the election of directors, offers to acquire Strasbaugh and other matters submitted to a vote of all of our shareholders. Shares of our common stock eligible, or to become eligible, for public sale could adversely affect our stock price and make it difficult for us to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 31, 2009, we had outstanding 14,201,587 shares of common stock, a substantial number of which were restricted under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act. As of March 31, 2009, we also had outstanding options, warrants, and Series A Preferred Stock that were exercisable for or convertible into approximately 8,508,302 shares of common stock. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any adverse effect on the market price of our common stock could make it difficult for us to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock and the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock could substantially dilute your investment, impede our ability to obtain additional financing, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Under the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock and existing warrants to purchase our common stock, and outstanding options to acquire our common stock issued to employees and others, the holders of these instruments are given an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock that, upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock and the exercise of the warrants and/or options, could result in dilution in the interests of our other shareholders. The terms on which we may obtain additional financing may be adversely affected by the existence and potentially dilutive impact of our Series A Preferred Stock, options and warrants. In addition, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and warrants have registration rights with respect to the common stock underlying such Series A Preferred Stock and warrants, the registration of which will cause us to incur a substantial expense. 23 The voting power and value of outstanding shares of Common Stock could decline if our Series A Preferred Stock and warrants issued to our investors are converted or exercised at a reduced price due to our issuance of lower-priced shares which trigger rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and warrants to receive additional shares of our stock. As part of our Series A Preferred Stock Financing, we issued a significant amount of common stock warrants to our investors, the conversion or exercise of which could have a substantial negative impact on the price of our common stock The initial conversion price of our Series A Preferred Stock and the initial exercise price of our investor warrants will be subject to downward anti-dilution adjustments in most cases, from time to time, where we issue securities at a purchase, exercise or conversion price that is less than the then-applicable conversion price of our Series A Preferred Stock or exercise price of our investor warrants. Consequently, the voting power and value of the Common Stock in each such event would decline if our Series A Preferred Stock or investor warrants are converted or exercised for shares of our common stock at the new lower price as a result of sales of our securities made below the then applicable conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or the exercise price of the investor warrants. The market price of our common stock could substantially decline if our Series A Preferred Stock, warrants or options are converted or exercised into shares of our common stock and resold into the market, or if a perception exists that a substantial number of shares will be issued upon conversion or exercise of our Series A Preferred Stock, warrants or options and then resold into the market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock issued upon conversion or exercise of our Series A Preferred Stock, warrants and options, or even the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because we are subject to the “Penny Stock” rules, the level of trading activity in our common stock may be reduced. Our stock constitutes “Penny Stock.” Under applicable SEC rules, Penny Stocks are generally equity securities with a price per share of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national exchanges). Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in Penny Stocks are regulated by rules adopted by the SEC. The Penny Stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in Penny Stocks not exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about Penny Stocks and the nature and level of risks in the Penny Stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the Penny Stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and the salesperson in the transaction, and monthly accounting statements showing the market value of each Penny Stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the Penny Stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in a Penny Stock, such as our common stock, and investors in our common stock may find it difficult to sell their shares. Because our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, you may find it difficult to dispose of or obtain quotations for our common stock. Our common stock was quoted on the Pink Sheets® under the symbol “STRB.PK” until January 5, 2009, when it began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “STRB.OB”. Because our stock is quoted on other than a national securities exchange, you may find it difficult to either dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. 24 Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our company and have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We produce our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and in future years will require a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses our internal controls. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue a favorable assessment if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If in the future, either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 