Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 20 Failure to Meet Listing Standards. It is uncertain whether our common stock will meet the requirements for listing on Nasdaq, or any other stock exchange or quotation service. In July 2004, due to our inability to complete our audit and file our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 in a timely manner, the Fund’s common stock was delisted from Nasdaq. As we become current with the delinquent filings, we will attempt to relist with Nasdaq or a national stock exchange, but there is no certainty that we will be able to do so. Our Growth is Dependent on Investing in Quality Deals. Sustaining growth depends on our ability to identify, evaluate, finance, and invest in companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing such results on a cost-effective basis is a function of our marketing capabilities and skillful management of the investment process. Failure to achieve future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to Invest Capital Effectively May Decrease Our Stock Price. If we fail to invest our capital effectively, our return on equity may be decreased, which could reduce the price of the shares of our common stock. Highly Competitive Market for Investments. We compete with a number of private equity funds, other investment entities and individuals for investment opportunities. Some of these competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources, and some are subject to different and frequently less stringent regulation. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our objectives. Lack of Publicly Available Information on Certain Portfolio Companies. Some of the securities in our portfolio are issued by privately held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and we must rely on the diligence of our management to obtain the information necessary for our decision to invest. There can be no assurance that such diligence efforts will uncover all material information necessary to make fully informed investment decisions. Dependence on Key Management. Selecting, structuring and closing our investments depends upon the diligence and skill of our management, which is responsible for identifying, evaluating, negotiating, monitoring and disposing of our investments. Our management's capabilities will significantly impact our results of operations. If we lose any member of our management team and he/she cannot be promptly replaced with an equally capable team member, our results of operations could be significantly impacted. Failure to Deploy Capital may Lower Returns. Our failure to successfully deploy sufficient capital may reduce our return on equity. 21 Results May Fluctuate. Our operating results may fluctuate materially due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our portfolio companies’ markets, the ability to find and close suitable investments, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Uncertain Value of Certain Restricted Securities. Our net asset value is based on the values assigned to the various investments in our portfolio, determined in good faith by our board of directors. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities which do not have readily ascertainable market values, our fair value determinations may differ materially from the values which would be applicable to unrestricted securities having a public market. Illiquid Securities May Adversely Affect Our Business. Our portfolio contains securities which are subject to restrictions on sale because they were acquired from issuers in "private placement" transactions or because we are deemed to be an affiliate of the issuer. Unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 is available, we will not be able to sell these securities publicly without the expense and time required to register the securities under applicable federal and state securities laws. In addition, contractual or practical limitations may restrict our ability to liquidate our securities in portfolio companies, because we may own a relatively large percentage of the issuer's outstanding securities. Sales may also be limited by unfavorable market conditions. The illiquidity of our investments may preclude or delay the disposition of such securities, which may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments. Regulated Industry. Publicly traded investment funds are highly regulated. Changes in securities laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. Failure to Qualify for Favorable Tax Treatment. We may not qualify for conduit tax treatment as a Regulated Investment Company ("RIC") if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to satisfy such requirements and cease to qualify for conduit tax treatment, we will be subject to federal taxes on our net investment income. The loss of this pass-through tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. Highly Leveraged Portfolio Companies. Some of our portfolio companies could incur substantial indebtedness in relation to their overall capital base. Such indebtedness often has a term that will require the balance of the loan to be refinanced when it matures. If portfolio companies cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on their indebtedness, the value of our investments could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company's assets or by the portfolio company's reorganization or bankruptcy. 22 Our Common Stock Often Trades at a Discount. Our common stock often trades at a discount from net asset value. Our common stock is traded over-the-counter in the pink sheets. Stockholders desiring liquidity may sell their shares at current market value, which has often been below net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at discounts from net asset value, which is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that a fund's performance will cause its net asset value to decrease. Nature of Investment in Our Common Stock. Our stock is intended for investors seeking long-term capital appreciation. Our investments in portfolio securities generally require some time to reach maturity, and such investments generally are illiquid. An investment in our shares should not be considered a complete investment program. Each prospective purchaser should take into account his or her investment objectives as well as his or her other investments when considering the purchase of our shares. Our Stock Price May Fluctuate Significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of shares of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including our investment results, market conditions, and other influences and events over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. Item 