ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are engaged in a business strategy that includes the long-term growth of our operations. The success of a business strategy, by its very nature, involves a significant number of risks and uncertainties. The risk factors listed below are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from projections in forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases and in oral statements by our representatives. However, other factors that we do not anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information, may also have an adverse effect on our results. Risk Factors Relating to our Company Our success depends on our ability to compete with others. The foodservice industry is intensely competitive with respect to the quality and value of food products offered, service, price, convenience, and dining experience. We compete with major restaurant chains, some of which dominate the QSR industry. Our competitors also include a variety of mid-price, full-service casual-dining restaurants, health and nutrition-oriented restaurants, delicatessens and prepared food restaurants, take-out food service companies, fast food restaurants, supermarkets and convenience stores. In addition to competing with such companies for customers, we also must compete with them for access to qualified employees and management personnel, suitable restaurant locations and capable franchisees. Many of our competitors have substantially greater brand recognition, as well as greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages with respect to some or all of these areas of competition. Some of our competitors have engaged and may continue to engage in substantial price discounting in response to the recent economic recession and the continuing weak economic conditions, which may adversely impact our sales and operating results. As our competitors expand operations and marketing campaigns, we expect competition to intensify. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions, economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect our operating results. The QSR industry is affected by changes in economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and other factors. Multi-location foodservice businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, food tampering, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. We can be similarly affected by consumer concerns with respect to the nutritional value of quick-service food. In addition, the ongoing weak economic conditions may cause changes in consumer preferences, and if such economic conditions persist for an extended period of time, this may result in consumers making long-lasting changes to their spending behaviors. A number of our major competitors have been increasing their “value item” offerings and implementing certain pricing promotions for various other menu items. If consumer preference continues to shift towards these “value items,” it may become necessary for us to implement temporary promotional pricing offerings. If we implement such promotional offerings, our operating margins may be adversely impacted. Any promotional offerings or temporary price cuts implemented by us are not expected to represent a permanent change in our business strategy, and would only be temporary in duration. Factors such as interest rates, inflation, gasoline prices, commodity costs, labor and benefits costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. In particular, increases in interest rates may impact land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds, and thereby adversely affect our ability and our franchisees’ ability to finance new restaurant development and improve existing restaurants. In addition, inflation can cause increased commodity and labor and benefits costs and can increase our operating expenses. 11 Table of Contents Changes in food, packaging and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food, packaging and supply costs. We and our franchisees purchase large quantities of food, packaging and supplies; and like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food, packaging and supply costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, food-borne diseases, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar, and government regulations. Since we have a higher concentration of company-operated restaurants than many of our competitors, we may have greater volatility in our operating costs than those competitors who are more heavily franchised. The predominant food commodities purchased by our restaurants include beef, chicken, potatoes, pork, wheat flour, dairy, cheese, soybean oil and produce. The cost of many commodities has increased markedly in some years, resulting in upward pricing pressure on many of our raw ingredients, and thereby increasing our food costs. In particular, food prices began to escalate during the latter half of fiscal 2011, and we expect that there may be additional and potentially worsening pricing pressure on some of our key ingredients during fiscal 2012. Material increases in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on a limited number of key suppliers to deliver quality products to us at moderate prices. Our profitability is dependent on, among other things, our continuing ability to offer premium-quality food at moderate prices. Our Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s restaurants depend on the distribution services of MBM, a third party national distributor of food and other products. MBM is responsible for delivering food, packaging and other products from our suppliers to our restaurants on a frequent and routine basis. MBM also provides distribution services to nearly all of our Carl’s Jr.’s and Hardee’s franchisees. Pursuant to the terms of our distribution agreements, we are obligated to purchase substantially all of our specified product requirements from MBM through June 30, 2017. Our suppliers may be adversely impacted by the continuing economic uncertainty, such as increased commodity prices, increased fuel costs, tight credit markets and various other factors. As a result, our suppliers may seek to change the terms on which they do business with us in order to lessen the impact of any current and future economic challenges on their businesses. If we are forced to renegotiate the terms upon which we conduct business with our suppliers or find alternative suppliers to provide key services, it could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the recent economic recession and continuing weak economic conditions have forced some food suppliers to seek financing in order to stabilize their businesses, and others have ceased operations completely. If MBM or a large number of other suppliers suspend or cease operations, we may have difficulty keeping our restaurants fully supplied with the high quality ingredients we require. If we were forced to suspend serving one or more of our menu items that could have a significant adverse impact on our restaurant traffic and public perceptions of us, which would be harmful to our business. Our financial results may be impacted by our ability to successfully enter new markets, select appropriate restaurant locations, construct new restaurants, complete remodels or renew leases with desirable terms. Our growth strategy includes opening new restaurants in markets where we have relatively few or no existing restaurants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographical markets. Consumer characteristics and competition in new markets may differ substantially from those in the markets where we currently operate. Additionally, we may be unable to identify appropriate locations, develop brand recognition, successfully market our products or attract new customers. It may also be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage restaurants. Should we not succeed in entering new markets, there may be adverse impacts to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Our strategic plan, and a component of our business strategy, includes the construction of new restaurants and the remodeling of existing restaurants. We face competition from other restaurant operators, retail chains, companies and developers for desirable site locations, which may adversely affect the cost, implementation and timing of our expansion plans. If we experience delays in the construction or remodel processes, we may be unable to complete such activities at the planned cost, which would adversely affect our future results of operations. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that such remodels will increase the revenues generated by these restaurants or that any such increases will be sustainable. Likewise, we cannot be sure that the sites we select for new restaurants will result in restaurants whose sales results meet our expectations. 12 Table of Contents We lease a substantial number of our restaurant properties. The terms of our leases and subleases vary in length, with primary terms (i.e., before consideration of option periods) expiring on various dates through fiscal 2036. We do not expect the expiration of these leases to have a material impact on our operations in any particular year, as the expiration dates are staggered over a number of years and many of the leases contain renewal options. As our leases and available option periods expire, we will need to negotiate new leases with our landlords for those leased restaurants that we intend to continue operating. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable lease terms for them, we may decide to close the restaurants, or the new lease terms may negatively impact our consolidated results of operations. Our business may be adversely impacted by economic conditions and the geographic concentration of our restaurants. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which are influenced by general economic conditions and other factors. Negative consumer sentiment in the wake of the recent economic recession has been widely reported over the past two years and, according to some economic forecasts, may continue during fiscal 2012. Our sales may decline during this period of economic uncertainty, or during future economic downturns, which can be caused by various factors such as high gasoline prices, increasing food prices, high unemployment rates, declining home prices or tight credit markets. Any material decline in consumer confidence or discretionary spending could cause our financial results to decline. In addition, unfavorable macroeconomic trends or developments concerning factors such as increased food, commodity, fuel, utilities, labor and benefits costs may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Current or future economic conditions may prevent us from increasing prices to match increased costs without negatively impacting our sales or market share. If we were unable to raise prices or alter our product mix in order to recover increased costs for food, packaging, fuel, utilities, wages, clothing and equipment, our profitability would be negatively affected. We have a geographic concentration of restaurants in certain states and regions, which can cause economic conditions in particular areas to have a disproportionate impact on our overall results of operations. As of January 31, 2011, we and our franchisees operated restaurants in 42 states and 18 foreign countries. By number of restaurants, our domestic operations are most concentrated in California, North Carolina and Virginia, and our international licensees are most concentrated in Mexico and the Middle East. Adverse economic conditions in states or regions that contain a high concentration of Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s restaurants could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the future. In particular, continuing high unemployment rates in California, especially among our core customer demographic of young men, has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain certain key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on continuing services from the members of our key senior management team. The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute key strategic business decisions and negatively impact the profitability of our business. Additionally, our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled senior management personnel. Our success depends on our franchisees’ participation in our strategy. Our franchisees are an integral part of our business. We may be unable to successfully implement our brand strategies if our franchisees do not actively participate in such implementation. The failure of our franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness, would have a negative impact on our success. It may be more difficult for us to monitor our international licensees’ implementation of our brand strategies due to our lack of personnel in the markets served by such licensees. 13 Table of Contents Our financial results are affected by the financial results of our franchisees and international licensees. We receive royalties from our franchisees. As a result, our financial results are impacted by the operational and financial success of our franchisees, including their implementation of our strategic plans, and their ability to secure adequate financing. If our franchisees continue to be impacted by the recent economic recession and continuing weak economic conditions, and they are unable to secure adequate sources of financing, their financial health may worsen, our collection rates may decline and we may be required to assume the responsibility for additional lease payments on franchised restaurants, offer extended payment terms or make other concessions. Additionally, refusal on the part of franchisees to renew their franchise agreements may result in decreased royalties. Entering into restructured franchise agreements may result in reduced franchise royalty rates in the future. Furthermore, if our franchisees are not able to obtain the financing necessary to complete planned remodel and construction projects, they may be forced to postpone or cancel such projects. The financial conditions of our international licensees may also be adversely impacted by political, economic or other changes in the global markets in which they operate. As a result, the royalties we receive from our international licensees may be affected by recessionary or expansive trends in international markets, increasing labor costs in certain international markets, changes in applicable tax laws, changes in inflation rates, changes in exchange rates and the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds, expropriation of private enterprises, political and economic instability and other external factors. Our business depends on the willingness of vendors and service providers to supply us with goods and services pursuant to customary credit arrangements which may not be available to us in the future. Like many companies in the foodservice industry, we purchase goods and services from trade creditors pursuant to customary credit arrangements. Changes in our capital structure, including as a result of the Merger, or other factors outside our control may cause trade creditors to change our customary credit arrangements. If we are unable to maintain or obtain trade credit from vendors and service providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, or if vendors and service providers are unable to obtain trade credit or factor their receivables, then we may not be able to execute our business plan, develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, the tightening of trade credit could limit our available liquidity. Our international operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that they will be successful. An important component of our growth strategy involves increasing our net restaurant count in international markets. The execution of this growth strategy depends upon the opening of new restaurants by our existing licensees and by new licensees. We and our current or future licensees face many risks and uncertainties in opening new international restaurants, including international economic and political conditions, differing cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and tax systems, securing acceptable suppliers, difficulty in collecting our royalties and longer payment cycles, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international license agreements, the selection and availability of suitable restaurant locations, currency regulation and fluctuation, and other external factors. In addition, our current licensees may be unwilling or unable to increase their investment in our system by opening new restaurants. Moreover, our international growth also depends upon the availability of prospective licensees or joint venture partners with the experience and financial resources to be effective operators of our restaurants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify future licensees who meet our criteria, or that, once identified, they will successfully implement their expansion plans. 14 Table of Contents Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether accurate or not, could reduce the production and supply of important food products, cause damage to our reputation and adversely affect our sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as those caused by E. coli, Listeria or Salmonella, in addition to Avian Influenza (commonly known as bird flu) and Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (commonly known as BSE or mad cow disease), and injuries caused by food tampering have, in the past, severely impacted the production and supply of certain food products, including poultry and beef. A reduction in the supply of such food products could have a material effect on the price at which we could obtain them, particularly in an environment of already increasing commodity prices. Failure to procure food products, such as poultry or beef, at reasonable terms and prices or any reduction in consumption of such food products by consumers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, reports, whether or not true, of food-borne illnesses or the use of hormones, antibiotics or pesticides in the production of certain food products may cause consumers to reduce or avoid consumption of such food products. Our brands’ reputations are important assets to us, and any such reports could damage our brands’ reputations and immediately and severely hurt sales and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses or food tampering, we could be forced to temporarily close some, or all, of our restaurants. While we have implemented a Quality Assurance program that is designed to verify that the food products prepared in our restaurants are prepared in a manner which complies with, or exceeds, all regulatory standards for food safety, there can be no assurance that we can detect or prevent all incidences of food-borne illnesses or food tampering. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering occurring at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the QSR industry, adversely affect our sales on a local, regional, or national basis. Our operations are seasonal and heavily influenced by weather conditions. Weather, which is unpredictable, can adversely impact our sales. Harsh weather conditions may discourage customers from dining out and result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. For example, a heavy snowstorm can leave an entire metropolitan area snowbound, resulting in a reduction in sales. Our first and fourth quarters, most notably the fourth quarter, include winter months when there is historically a lower level of sales. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods adversely impacts our profitability. These adverse, weather-driven events have a more pronounced impact on our Hardee’s restaurants. For these reasons, sequential quarter-to-quarter comparisons may not be a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. Our business may suffer due to our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel and due to higher labor costs. Our restaurant-level workforce requires large numbers of both entry-level and skilled employees. From time to time, we have had difficulty hiring and maintaining qualified restaurant management personnel. In addition, due to the labor-intensive nature of our business, increases in minimum wage levels have negatively impacted our labor costs, and further increases in minimum wage levels could have additional negative effects on our consolidated results of operations. Higher health care costs could adversely affect our business. We offer access to healthcare benefits to certain of our employees. Changes in legislation may cause us to provide health insurance to employees on terms that differ significantly from our existing programs. We will be impacted by the passage of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Act”). Under the Act, we may be required to amend our health care plans to, among other things, provide affordable coverage, as defined in the Act, to all employees, or otherwise be subject to a payment per employee based on the affordability criteria in the Act, cover adult children of our employees to age 26, delete lifetime limits, and delete pre-existing condition limitations. Many of these requirements will be phased in over a period of time. Additionally, some states and localities have passed state and local laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Increased health care costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business may be impacted by increased insurance and/or self-insurance costs. From time to time, we have been negatively affected by increases in both workers’ compensation and general liability insurance and claims expense due to our claims experience and rising healthcare costs. Although we seek to manage our claims to prevent increases, such increases can occur unexpectedly and without regard to our efforts to limit them. If such increases occur, we may be unable to pass them along to the consumer through product price increases, resulting in decreased operating results. We are subject to certain health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage to our reputation and lower profits. We, and our franchisees, are subject to various federal, state and local laws. The successful development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor and immigration law, (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime pay practices, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the ADA. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be harmed. Injury to our reputation could negatively impact our operating results. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among restaurants. As a result, we have recently become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure including requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products. The operation of our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationships with our franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. We are subject to the FLSA, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We have experienced and expect further increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. We are also subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. These laws may also impose liability for damages from and the costs of cleaning up sites of spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. We may be responsible for environmental conditions or contamination relating to our restaurants and the land on which our restaurants are located, regardless of whether we lease or own the restaurant or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant. The costs of any cleanup could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brands and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use existing trademarks, service marks and other components of our brands in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation from customers, franchisees, and employees in the ordinary course of business that could adversely affect us. We may be subject to claims, including class action lawsuits, filed by customers, franchisees, employees, and others in the ordinary course of business. Significant claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations causing adverse impacts to our operating results. In addition, adverse publicity or a substantial judgment against us could negatively impact our brand reputation resulting in further adverse impacts to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not specifically named, publicity about these matters may harm our reputation and have adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant failure, interruption or security breach of our computer systems or information technology may adversely affect our business. We are significantly dependent upon our computer systems and information technology to properly conduct our business. A significant failure or interruption of service, or a breach in security of our computer systems could cause reduced efficiency in operations, loss of data and business interruptions, and significant capital investment could be required to rectify the problems. In addition, any security breach involving our point of sale or other systems could result in loss of consumer confidence and potential costs associated with consumer fraud. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of franchisees, distributors, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from our distributors or suppliers. We are controlled by affiliates of Apollo, and its interests as an equity holder may conflict with the interests of our creditors. We are controlled by affiliates of Apollo Global Management, LLC and its subsidiaries, including Apollo Management (collectively, “Apollo”), and Apollo has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the entering into of significant transactions. The interests of Apollo may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our creditors. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our indebtedness as it matures, the interests of Apollo as an equity holder may conflict with the interests of our creditors. In addition, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our creditors. Furthermore, Apollo may, in the future, own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. Apollo also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Apollo continues to own a significant amount of our combined voting power, even if such amount is less than 50%, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 17 Table of Contents We are controlled by Parent, and Parent’s ability to make any required cash payments on its senior unsecured PIK toggle notes may be dependent on our operations and the distribution of funds from us. On March 14, 2011, Parent issued $200,000 aggregate principal amount of its 10.50%/11.25% senior unsecured PIK toggle notes due March 14, 2016. Parent used the proceeds from the issuance of the Parent Notes, net of its expenses, to pay a dividend to its parent company. We have not guaranteed the Parent Notes, nor have we pledged any of our assets or stock as collateral for the Parent Notes. However, in the indenture governing the Parent Notes, Parent agreed to abide by, and to cause us to abide by, various restrictions, which are substantially similar to the restrictions contained in the indenture governing our Notes. CKE is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent, and we are controlled by Parent. Parent is a holding company, and we conduct all of Parent’s operations and own all of its operating assets. Therefore, Parent may depend on dividends and other distributions from us (which are subject to restrictions under the indenture governing our Notes and the terms of our Credit Facility) to meet its obligations, including its required cash obligations under the Parent Notes. Accordingly, the interests of Parent may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our creditors. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our Notes and Credit Facility. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Notes and Credit Facility. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences for our creditors, including: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, will be at variable rates of interest; · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the Notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; · restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Despite our high indebtedness level, we are still able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the Notes and the Credit Facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes does not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indenture. 18 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. For example, the indenture contains covenants that will, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: · incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred equity; · pay dividends on or make distributions to holders of our common stock or make other restricted payments; · sell certain assets; · create or incur liens on certain assets to secure debt; · make certain investments; · designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; or · enter into certain transactions with affiliates. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with any of the covenants in the indenture or the Credit Facility, we could be in default under one or more of these agreements. In the event of such a default: · the lenders under our Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans to us; · the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which would prevent us from using our cash flows for other purposes; · if we are unable to pay amounts outstanding and declared immediately due and payable, the holders of such indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness; and · we could ultimately be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, because our subsidiaries conduct a significant portion of our operations, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us. While the indenture governing the Notes limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. 19 Table of Contents If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture governing the Notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 