Item 1A. Risk Factors We are engaged in a business strategy that includes the long-term growth of our operations. The success of a business strategy, by its very nature, involves a significant number of risks and uncertainties. The risk factors listed below are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from projections in forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases and in oral statements by our representatives. However, other factors that we do not anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information may also have an adverse effect on our results. Our success depends on our ability to compete with others. The foodservice industry is intensely competitive with respect to the quality and value of food products offered, service, price, convenience, and dining experience. We compete with major restaurant chains, some of which dominate the QSR industry. Our competitors also include a variety of mid-price, full-service casual-dining restaurants, health and nutrition-oriented restaurants, delicatessens and prepared food restaurants, take-out food service companies, fast food restaurants, supermarkets and convenience stores. In addition to competing with such companies for customers, we also must compete with them for access to qualified employees and management personnel, suitable restaurant locations and capable franchisees. Many of our competitors have substantially greater brand recognition, as well as greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages with respect to some or all of these areas of competition. Some of our competitors have engaged and may continue to engage in substantial price discounting, which may adversely impact our sales and operating results. As our competitors expand operations and marketing campaigns, we expect competition to intensify. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Restrictive covenants in our credit facility could adversely affect our business. Our Facility contains restrictive covenants and requirements that we comply with certain financial ratios. Certain of these covenants limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, and making specified distributions or other restricted payments, including capital expenditures and other investments. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Failure to maintain financial ratios required by our Facility or to comply with the covenants in our Facility could also result in acceleration of our indebtedness, which would impair our liquidity and limit our ability to operate. If the current economic conditions and decreases in discretionary consumer spending continue for a prolonged period of time, our results of operations may be materially impacted and we may fail to maintain the financial ratios required by our Facility. The recent worldwide financial crisis has resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability, and future turmoil in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more costly for us to refinance our Facility (if necessary) or incur additional indebtedness and could impact the ability of banks to honor draws on our existing credit facilities. 9 Table of Contents Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions, economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect our operating results. The QSR industry is affected by changes in economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and other factors. Multi-location foodservice businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, food tampering, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. We can be similarly affected by consumer concerns with respect to the nutritional value of quick-service food. Our ability to anticipate and respond to trends and changes in consumer preferences may affect our future operating results. Additionally, current economic conditions may cause changes in consumer preferences, and if such economic conditions persist for an extended period of time, this may result in consumers making long-lasting changes to their spending behaviors. A number of our major competitors have been increasing their “value item” offerings and implementing certain pricing promotions for various other menu items. If consumer preference continues to shift towards these “value items”, it may become necessary for us to implement temporary promotional pricing offerings. If we implement such promotional offerings our operating margins may be adversely impacted. Any promotional offerings or temporary price cuts implemented by us are not expected to represent a permanent change in our business strategy, and would only be temporary in duration. Factors such as interest rates, inflation, gasoline prices, commodity costs, labor and benefits costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. In particular, increases in interest rates may impact land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds, and thereby adversely affect our ability and our franchisees’ ability to finance new restaurant development and improve existing restaurants. In addition, inflation can cause increased commodity and labor and benefits costs and can increase our operating expenses. We depend on a limited number of key suppliers to deliver quality products to us at moderate prices. Our profitability is dependent on, among other things, our continuing ability to offer premium-quality food at moderate prices. While we continue to operate our own distribution business for most of our Carl’s Jr. system, we rely upon an independent distributor for our Hardee’s restaurants. Our Hardee’s restaurants depend on the distribution services of MBM, a national distributor of food and other products. MBM is responsible for delivering food, packaging and other products from our suppliers to our Hardee’s restaurants on a frequent and routine basis. MBM also provides distribution services to nearly all of our Hardee’s franchisees. Pursuant to the terms of our distribution agreement, we are obligated to purchase substantially all of our specified product requirements from MBM through July 14, 2010. We are currently in discussions with MBM, as well as other distribution service providers, to negotiate a new distribution agreement. There can be no assurance that the new or revised distribution agreement will contain similar or favorable terms. Additionally, should we successfully enter into a new agreement, we cannot predict the future terms or prices after expiration of the renewed agreement. Our suppliers may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, such as the tightening of the credit markets, decreased transaction volumes, fluctuating commodity prices and various other factors. As a result, our suppliers may seek to change the terms on which they do business with us in order to lessen the impact of any current and future economic challenges on their businesses. If we are forced to renegotiate the terms upon which we conduct business with our suppliers or find alternative suppliers to provide key services, it could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the current economic environment has forced some food suppliers to seek financing in order to stabilize their businesses, and others have ceased operations completely. If MBM or a large number of other suppliers suspend or cease operations, we may have difficulty keeping our restaurants fully supplied with the high quality ingredients we require. If we were forced to suspend serving one or more of our menu items that could have a significant adverse impact on our restaurant traffic and public perceptions of us, which would be harmful to our business. 10 Table of Contents Our financial results may be impacted by our ability to successfully enter new markets, select appropriate restaurant locations, construct new restaurants, complete remodels or renew leases with desirable terms. Our growth strategy includes opening new restaurants in markets where we have relatively few or no existing restaurants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographical markets. Consumer characteristics and competition in new markets may differ substantially from those in the markets where we currently operate. Additionally, we may be unable to identify appropriate locations, develop brand recognition, successfully market our products or attract new customers. It may also be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage restaurants. Should we not succeed in entering new markets, there may be adverse impacts to our financial condition and results of operations. Our strategic plan, and a component of our business strategy, includes the construction of new restaurants and the remodeling of existing restaurants. We face competition from other restaurant operators, retail chains, companies and developers for desirable site locations, which may adversely affect the cost, implementation and timing of our expansion plans. If we experience delays in the construction or remodel processes, we may be unable to complete such activities at the planned cost, which would adversely affect our future results of operations. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that such remodels will increase the revenues generated by these restaurants or that any such increases will be sustainable. Likewise, we cannot be sure that the sites we select for new restaurants will result in restaurants whose sales results meet our expectations. We lease a substantial number of our restaurant properties. The terms of our leases and subleases vary in length, with primary terms (i.e., before consideration of option periods) expiring on various dates through fiscal 2036. We do not expect the expiration of these leases to have a material impact on our operations in any particular year, as the expiration dates are staggered over a number of years and many of the leases contain renewal options. As our leases and available option periods expire, we will need to negotiate new leases with our landlords for those leased restaurants that we intend to continue operating. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable lease terms for them, we may decide to close the restaurants, or the new lease terms may negatively impact our consolidated results of operations. Our business and stock price may be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions. Worldwide economic conditions and consumer spending have deteriorated and may remain depressed for some time. Current economic conditions have resulted in higher levels of unemployment, reductions in disposable income for many consumers and lower levels of consumer confidence. If these economic conditions persist for an extended period of time, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their spending habits and behavior. In addition, real or perceived concerns about the economy may seriously harm the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. In addition, unfavorable macroeconomic trends or developments concerning factors such as increased food, fuel, utilities, labor and benefits costs may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions may prevent us from increasing prices to match increased costs without further harming our sales. If we were unable to raise prices in order to recover increased costs for food, packaging, fuel, utilities, wages, clothing and equipment, our profitability would be negatively affected. We have a geographic concentration of restaurants in certain states and regions, which can cause economic conditions in particular areas of the country to have a disproportionate impact on our overall results of operations. As of January 31, 2010, we and our franchisees operated restaurants in 42 states and 14 foreign countries. By number of restaurants, our operations are most concentrated in California, North Carolina and Virginia. Adverse economic conditions in states or regions that contain a high concentration of Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s restaurants could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the future. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain certain key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on continuing services from certain of our key senior management team. The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute key strategic business decisions and negatively impact the profitability of our business. Additionally, our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled senior management personnel. Our success depends on our franchisees’ participation in our strategy. Our franchisees are an integral part of our business. We may be unable to successfully implement our brand strategies if our franchisees do not actively participate in such implementation. The failure of our franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness, would have a negative impact on our success. It may be more difficult for us to monitor our international licensees’ implementation of our brand strategies due to our lack of personnel in the markets served by such licensees. 11 Table of Contents Our financial results are affected by the financial results of our franchisees. We receive royalties from our franchisees. As a result, our financial results are somewhat dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees, including their implementation of our strategic plans, and their ability to secure adequate financing. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for our franchisees, and they are unable to secure adequate sources of financing, their financial health may worsen, our collection rates may decline and we may be required to assume the responsibility for additional lease payments on franchised restaurants. Additionally, refusal on the part of franchisees to renew their franchise agreements may result in decreased royalties. Entering into restructured franchise agreements may result in reduced franchise royalty rates in the future. Furthermore, due to the current economic conditions, our franchisees may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to complete planned remodel and construction projects, and may be forced to postpone or cancel such projects. The financial conditions of our international licensees may also be adversely impacted by political, economic or other changes in the global markets in which they operate. As a result, the royalties we receive from our international licensees may be affected by recessionary or expansive trends in international markets, increasing labor costs in certain international markets, changes in applicable tax laws, changes in inflation rates, changes in exchange rates and the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds, expropriation of private enterprises, political and economic instability and other external factors. Our international operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that our international operations will be successful. An important component of our growth strategy involves increasing our net restaurant count in international markets. The execution of this growth strategy depends upon the opening of new restaurants by our existing licensees and by new licensees. We and our current or future licensees face many risks and uncertainties in opening new international restaurants, including international economic and political conditions, differing cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and tax systems, securing acceptable suppliers, difficulty in collecting our royalties and longer payment cycles, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international license agreements, the selection and availability of suitable restaurant locations, currency regulation and fluctuation, and other external factors. In addition, our current licensees may be unwilling or unable to increase their investment in our system by opening new restaurants. Moreover, our international growth also depends upon the availability of prospective licensees or joint venture partners with the experience and financial resources to be effective operators of our restaurants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify future licensees who meet our criteria, or that, once identified, they will successfully implement their expansion plans. We face commodity price and availability risks. We and our franchisees purchase large quantities of food and supplies which may be subject to substantial price fluctuations. We purchase agricultural and livestock products that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply, global demand, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar, commodity market conditions and other factors that are not predictable or within our control. Increases in commodity prices could result in higher restaurant operating costs. Since we have a higher concentration of company-operated restaurants than many of our competitors, we may have greater operating cost exposure than those competitors who are more heavily franchised. Occasionally, the availability of commodities can be limited due to circumstances beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain such commodities, we may be unable to offer related products, which would have a negative impact on our operating expenses and profitability. Our business may be impacted if we do not successfully manage changes to the Carl’s Jr. distribution center operations. We currently supply food, packaging and other supplies both to company-operated Carl’s Jr. restaurants and to a majority of Carl’s Jr. franchised and licensed restaurants through our two distribution center facilities in California. Our current distribution agreement with Carl’s Jr. franchisees expired on March 12, 2010. Carl’s Jr. is currently considering outsourcing our distribution needs to a third party distributor as an alternative to our existing Carl’s Jr. distribution operations. We plan to continue to provide distribution services to our franchisees and licensees on a month-to-month basis until a future decision is made related to the Carl's Jr. distribution operations. Carl’s Jr. has received a number of proposals from third party distributors, but a decision has not yet been made whether to retain the existing distribution operations or outsource to a third party distributor. The joint participation in the distribution arrangement with Carl’s Jr. franchisees provides significant economies of scale. There can be no assurance that Carl’s Jr. franchisees will participate in the distribution strategy that results in the most favorable terms for us, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether accurate or not, could reduce the production and supply of important food products, cause damage to our reputation and adversely affect our sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as those caused by E. coli, Listeria or Salmonella, in addition to Avian Influenza (commonly known as bird flu) and Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (commonly known as BSE or mad cow disease), and injuries caused by food tampering have, in the past, severely impacted the production and supply of certain food products, including poultry and beef. A reduction in the supply of such food products could have a material effect on the price at which we could obtain them. Failure to procure food products, such as poultry or beef, at reasonable terms and prices or any reduction in consumption of such food products by consumers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, reports, whether or not true, of food-borne illnesses or the use of hormones, antibiotics or pesticides in the production of certain food products may cause consumers to reduce or avoid consumption of such food products. Our brands’ reputations are important assets to us, and any such reports could damage our brands’ reputations and immediately and severely hurt sales and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses or food tampering, we could be forced to temporarily close some, or all, of our restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering occurring at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the QSR industry, adversely affect our sales on a local, regional, or national basis. Our operations are seasonal and heavily influenced by weather conditions. Weather, which is unpredictable, can adversely impact our sales. Harsh weather conditions that discourage customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. A heavy snowstorm can leave an entire metropolitan area snowbound, resulting in a reduction in sales. Our first and fourth quarters, most notably the fourth quarter, include winter months when there is historically a lower level of sales. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods adversely impacts our profitability. These adverse, weather-driven events have a more pronounced impact on our Hardee’s restaurants. For these reasons, sequential quarter-to-quarter comparisons may not be a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. Our business may suffer due to our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel and due to higher labor costs. Given that our restaurant-level workforce requires large numbers of both entry-level and skilled employees, low levels of unemployment could compromise our ability to provide quality service in our restaurants. From time to time, we have had difficulty hiring and maintaining qualified restaurant management personnel. Increases in minimum wage levels have negatively impacted our labor costs. Due to the labor-intensive nature of our business, further increases in minimum wage levels could have additional negative effects on our consolidated results of operations. Our business may be impacted by increased insurance and/or self-insurance costs. From time to time, we have been negatively affected by increases in both workers’ compensation and general liability insurance and claims expense due to our claims experience and rising healthcare costs. Although we seek to manage our claims to prevent increases, such increases can occur unexpectedly and without regard to our efforts to limit them. If such increases occur, we may be unable to pass them along to the consumer through product price increases, resulting in decreased operating results. We are subject to certain health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage to our reputation and lower profits. We, and our franchisees, are subject to various federal, state and local laws. The successful development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor and immigration law, (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime pay practices, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the ADA. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among restaurants. As a result, we may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with our franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Changes in applicable accounting rules imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could also affect our reported results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to the FLSA, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We have experienced and expect further increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. Additionally, we offer access to healthcare benefits to certain of our employees. The imposition of any requirement that we provide health insurance to all employees on terms that differ significantly from our existing programs could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. These laws may also impose liability for damages from and the costs of cleaning up sites of spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. We may be responsible for environmental conditions or contamination relating to our restaurants and the land on which our restaurants are located, regardless of whether we lease or own the restaurant or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant. The costs of any cleanup could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brands and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use existing trademarks, service marks and other components of our brands in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could limit the ability of our stockholders to effect a change in control. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include several provisions and features intended to render more difficult certain unsolicited or hostile attempts to acquire our business. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our stockholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix the rights, preferences and restrictions of such preferred stock. These provisions may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face risks related to interest rates. Our principal exposures to financial market risks are the impact that interest rate changes could have on our Facility, the magnitude of which depends on the amount of borrowings we have outstanding, and on the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements. As of January 31, 2010, we had borrowings outstanding of $247,432 and $30,000 under the term loan and revolving portions of our Facility, respectively. As of January 31, 2010, borrowings under the revolving portion of our Facility bore interest at a weighted-average rate of 1.75% per annum, and borrowings on the term loan bore interest at the London Inter Bank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.38%. The fair value of our interest rate swap agreements, which effectively fix future interest payments on $200,000 of our term loan debt at 6.12% through March 2012, is directly linked both to current interest rates and to expected future interest rates over their remaining term. These interest rate swap agreements are highly sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, which could result in significant variability in their future fair value. We are subject to litigation from customers, franchisees, and employees in the ordinary course of business that could adversely affect us. We may be subject to claims, including class action lawsuits, filed by customers, franchisees, employees, and others in the ordinary course of business. Significant claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations causing adverse impacts to our operating results. In addition, adverse publicity or a substantial judgment against us could negatively impact our brand reputation resulting in further adverse impacts to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not specifically named, publicity about these matters may harm our reputation and have adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents A significant failure, interruption or security breach of our computer systems or information technology may adversely affect our business. We are significantly dependent upon our computer systems and information technology to properly conduct our business. A significant failure or interruption of service, or a breach in security of our computer systems could cause reduced efficiency in operations, loss of data and business interruptions, and significant capital investment could be required to rectify the problems. In addition, any security breach involving our point of sale or other systems could result in loss of consumer confidence and potential costs associated with consumer fraud. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of franchisees, distributors, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from our distributors or suppliers. Failure to complete the proposed Merger could adversely affect our business. On February 26, 2010, we entered into the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which we may be acquired for $11.05 per share in cash. There is no assurance that our shareholders will approve the Merger Agreement or that other closing conditions will be satisfied. We are subject to several risks as a result of this Merger Agreement, including the following: • If the proposed Merger is not completed, the share price of our common stock may change to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the proposed Merger will be completed; • Certain costs related to the proposed Merger, including the fees and/or expenses of our legal, accounting and financial advisors, must be paid even if the proposed Merger is not completed; • Under circumstances as defined in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee and/or reimburse expenses if the Merger Agreement is terminated; • Additional shareholder lawsuits may be filed against us in connection with the Merger Agreement; • Our management and employees’ attention may have been diverted from day-to-day operations; • The terms of the financing for the proposed Merger may change; and • A failed Merger may result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of us in the investment community or business community generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 