RISK FACTORS Our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report before investing in our common stock. Any of the following factors, depending upon the severity and circumstances of a particular occurrence, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. RISK OF MANUFACTURING IN CHINA Our factory is in Tai Ping, Dongguan, People's Republic of China ("China") and our headquarters are in Hong Kong, which is a Special Administrative Region of China. Risk of China Losing Normal Trade Relations Status or of Changes in Tariff or Trade Policies. We manufacture in China and export from Hong Kong and China to the United States and worldwide. Our products sold in the United States are currently not subject to U.S. import duties. On September 19, 2000, the U.S. Senate voted to permanently normalize trade with China, which provides a favorable category of U.S. import duties. In addition, on December 11, 2001 China was accepted into the World Trade Organization (WTO), a global international organization of 144 countries that regulates international trade. As a result of opposition to certain policies of the Chinese government and China's growing trade surpluses with the United States, there has been, and in the future may be, opposition to the extension of Normal Trade Relations, or NTR, status for China. The loss of NTR status for China, changes in current tariff structures or adoption in the United States of other trade policies adverse to China could have an adverse effect on our business. Chinese Political, Economic and Legal Risks. Our current and future operations in China and Hong Kong are highly dependent on the Chinese government's continued support of economic reform programs that encourage private investment, and particularly foreign private investment. Although the Chinese government has adopted an "open door" policy with respect to foreign investment, we cannot assure you that this policy will continue. A change in policies by the Chinese government could adversely affect our business by, among other things, imposing confiscatory taxation, restricting currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies, or expropriating private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for many years, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies or that these policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership or other social or political disruption. Our production and shipping capabilities could be adversely affected by ongoing tensions between the Chinese and Taiwanese governments. In the event that Taiwan does not adopt a plan for unifying with China, the Chinese government has threatened military action against Taiwan. As of yet, Taiwan has not indicated that it intends to propose and adopt a reunification plan. If an invasion were to occur, our supply of components from Taiwanese suppliers, including computer processing units (CPUs), could be cut off, potentially limiting our production capabilities. Invasion could also lead to sanctions or military action by the U.S. and/or European countries, which could materially affect our sales to those countries. China Does Not Have a Comprehensive System of Laws. Enforcement of existing laws in China may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws may be inconsistent. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate law exists in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Dependence on Local Government. We operate our factory in China under agreements with the local government. These agreements and our factory operations are dependent on our relationship with the local government and existing trade practices. This relationship could be subject to adverse change in the future, especially in the event of a change in leadership or other social or political disruption. Chinese Taxation. In 2005, we incurred $587,760 in foreign enterprise tax relating to our Chinese subsidiary that is operated through a joint venture ("JV") contract. This is the seventh year we have paid foreign enterprise tax in China. We were granted 50% relief from foreign enterprise tax through December 31, 2001 under the Foreign Enterprise Income Tax Law of The People's Republic of China and were therefore taxed at 12%. In 2002 and 2003, we were taxed at the full rate of tax of 27%; however, we successfully applied to be designated as an "Export Oriented Enterprise", which resulted in a tax rebate received in 2005, 2004 and 2003 that reduced our China tax rate applicable to 2004, 2003 and 2002 to 12% excluding the local tax of 3%. The application to be designated as an "Export Oriented Enterprise" is required to be made on a yearly basis. We applied for the 7 same designation for 2005 and if our application is successful, it will result in the receipt of a tax rebate in 2006 that will reduce our China tax applicable to 2005 to 12%. The PRC assesses tax on us based on a JV contract. The JV contract is a JV with the local township that lasts through August 12, 2044 (inclusive of the contract renewal with respect to extension of the lease period for 20 years after its first expiration in 2024) and tax is payable quarterly based on tax rates determined upon entering the agreement. The Chinese tax system is subject to substantial uncertainties and has been subject to recently enacted changes, the interpretation and enforcement of which are also uncertain. We cannot assure you that changes in Chinese tax laws, their interpretation or their application will not subject us to substantial Chinese taxes in the future. In addition, the negotiation and settlement of tax obligations with the local tax authorities are a normal occurrence. Chinese Customs. Our Chinese subsidiary invoices the Macau entity which then invoices the Hong Kong, U.S. and U.K. entities for sales rendered. As required by Chinese customs and the Chinese tax authority in each jurisdiction, our Chinese subsidiary seeks to apply arms length pricing to this process. Should the customs or tax authority in any jurisdiction consider the pricing not to be arms-length, it may deem the prices charged to be different from those we have applied. If this decision were to be applied unilaterally, it could lead to an increase in our overall customs duties and taxes. In addition, we may have to expend resources in defending our position, irrespective of the outcome determined. Chinese Value Added Tax (VAT). China's turnover tax system consists of value-added tax, or VAT, consumption tax and business tax. Export sales are exempted under VAT rules and an exporter who incurs input VAT on purchase or manufacture of goods should be able to claim a refund from Chinese tax authorities. However, due to a reduction in the VAT export refund rate of some goods, exporters might bear part of the VAT they incurred in conjunction with the exported goods. In 2003, changes to the Chinese Value Added Tax system were announced affecting the recoverability of input VAT beginning January 1, 2004. Our VAT expense will depend on the reaction of both our suppliers and customers. Continued efforts by the Chinese government to increase tax revenues could result in revisions to tax laws or their interpretation, which could increase our VAT and various tax liabilities. In addition from 2006 onwards the China customs authorities intend to change their method of calculating both import and export VAT which will increase our liability. It is also possible they could choose to make this change retroactive. If the change were to be made retroactive, it would be subject to negotiation with China customs at that time. We establish provisions for our known and estimated customs duties and tax obligations. However, we may be exposed to additional taxation whether through a challenge by one of the many tax authorities in international jurisdictions of our transfer pricing, our claim regarding lack of permanent establishment, or other interpretations regarding our tax obligations. Limited Infrastructure. Electricity, water, sewage, telephone and other infrastructure are limited in the locality of our factory. In the past, we have experienced temporary shortages of electricity and water supply. We have installed nine back-up electrical generators in our factory which can support it in the event of a power shortage and have constructed a water storage tank that was put into service in early 2005. We cannot assure you that the infrastructure on which our factory is dependent will be adequate to operate the factory successfully. Availability of Factory Workers. Due to increases in demand for workers in southern China, we cannot assure you that we can adequately staff the factory. Labor shortages could have a material impact on production, which could lead to missed sales, increased air freight costs and vendor fines. DEPENDENCE ON CURRENT PRODUCT APPEAL AND NEW PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS Our operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our products to consumers. Consumer preferences are highly subjective, and there can be no assurance that consumers will continue to find existing products appealing or will find new products appealing. Also, we continue to offer a relatively limited range of products that are all in the categories of electronic toys and games or video game accessories. This exposes us to the risks of any narrowly focused business. Changes in consumer preferences away from the kinds of products we offer could have an adverse effect on our business. Some of our products have only recently been introduced and although they may experience good initial sales growth, we cannot assure you that this initial success is indicative of significant future sales. As a general matter, we expect that the sales of these products will eventually decline. We cannot predict how long the product life cycle will last for any product. Our long-term operating results will therefore depend largely upon our continued ability to conceive, develop and introduce new appealing products at competitive prices. 8 Once a new product is conceived, the principal steps to the introduction of the product include design, sourcing and testing of the electronic components, tooling, and purchase and design of graphics and packaging. At any stage in the process, there may be difficulties or delays in completing the necessary steps to meet the contemplated product introduction schedule. It is, for example, common in new product introductions or product revisions to encounter technical and other difficulties affecting manufacturing efficiency and, at times, the ability to manufacture at all, that will typically be corrected or improved over a period of time with continued manufacturing experience and engineering efforts. If one or more aspects necessary for introduction of products are not met in a timely fashion, or if technical difficulties take longer than anticipated to overcome, the anticipated product introductions will be delayed, or in some cases may be terminated. Therefore we cannot assure you that products will be introduced in a timely fashion. Future products may utilize different technologies and require knowledge of markets in which we do not presently participate. Significant delays in the introduction of, or the failure to introduce, new products or improved products would have an adverse effect on our operating results. We cannot assure you that retailers will react positively to new product introductions which may result in termination of a product. There is also a risk that the demand for new or existing products could drop suddenly. As a result, we may build excess quantities of certain products and subsequently have to make inventory provisions to markdown the value of excess inventory quantities to their estimated market or net realizable value. There are often technical challenges in bringing a product into production. We may announce and sell a product but later find it must be delayed or abandoned due to difficulties in engineering and manufacturing. We cannot assure you that an announced product will ship on time or not be abandoned. NO ASSURANCE OF GROWTH We cannot assure you that we will achieve future growth in net sales or that we will be able to maintain our present levels of net sales or profitability. Our current business strategy emphasizes the sale of a controlled number of products, while representing a more diverse range of products than in the past. Our products include casino and heritage electronic games, mechanical slot banks, youth electronic games, tabletop games, the 20Q(TM) line of electronic handheld and tabletop games, Play TV(R) games, the Girl Tech(R) girls electronic line, the Cupcakes(R) doll line, the Street Muttz(TM) plush line, the Cube World(TM) line of interactive electronic stick people and video game accessories sold under the Gamester(R) brand. In any period, our financial results are likely to vary with the success or lack of success of newly introduced products, which are inherently uncertain. We cannot simply rely on continuing sales of existing products. DEPENDENCE ON MAJOR CUSTOMERS Historically, a significant portion of our sales have been concentrated with a few large retail customers. These customer concentrations are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report. Most of our retail customers operate on a purchase order basis and we do not have long-term contracts with our retail customers. While we believe we have good relationships with our major retail customers, the loss of one or more of these retail customers would have an adverse effect on our operating results. On January 22, 2002, the Kmart Corporation filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Our receivable exposure to Kmart was entirely provided for during 2001 and no additional write-downs or expenses related to this bankruptcy were incurred during 2002. We continue to sell our products to Kmart and closely monitor our account with them in order to minimize future exposure. During 2003, both FAO, the parent company of FAO Schwartz and Zany Brainy stores, and KB Toys, Inc. filed for Chapter 11 protection. Our exposure was limited in both of these cases and any outstanding receivables were provided for during 2003. Currently, we are not selling to FAO Schwartz and are selling in limited quantities to KB Toys. As with Kmart, the accounts will be closely monitored in order to minimize future exposure. During 2005, a significant portion of our Original Equipment Manufacturing ("OEM") sales were sales to Hasbro, which is also one of our competitors. We do not have a specific contract with Hasbro regarding these projects and there is no assurance that we will continue to receive orders from Hasbro, which could have an adverse effect on our business. On March 17, 2005, Toys R Us (TRU) announced that they had agreed to be acquired for $6.6 billion by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., Bain Capital and Vornado Realty Trust. In early 2006, the acquiring group announced the closure of 85 TRU 9 stores in the US. TRU has stated that they do not plan to close any more stores in 2006 but there are no assurances that they won't continue to downsize further in the future. This closure could have an adverse effect on our future business with TRU. DEPENDENCE ON SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS We are dependent on suppliers for the components and parts that we assemble to produce our products. An interruption of the supply of LCDs, semiconductor chips or other supplies from a supplier could result in significant production delays. Additionally, recent increases in oil prices have resulted in significant price increases from suppliers of plastics. Most of our products are primarily made from plastic. While our products also contain significant electronic components and the cost of the plastic may not be the most significant material costs, if oil prices continue to rise, it could result in additional increases in the price of plastic, which would increase our product costs and subsequently reduce our profits. We are also encountering increases in the costs of other materials such as copper, which is used in a number of our electronic components, that could also potentially impact product costs. We also rely on outside manufacturers for production of some of our electronic games and video game accessories. While the majority of our production occurs in our own factory, manufacturer delays or shutdowns could have a significant impact on future sales of certain products. CONCENTRATED MANUFACTURING FACILITIES A disruption of operations at our China factory due to fire, labor dispute, dispute with the local government or otherwise, would have an adverse effect on our operating results. In such event, we believe that we could partially mitigate the effect of a disruption by increasing the use of subcontractors to assemble our products, but we cannot assure you that we would be able to do so. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are dependent on our relationship with the local government. NO ASSURANCE OF SUCCESS IN NEW PRODUCT LINES From time to time, we expand into related or new product lines in order to diversify and grow. Examples included the development of our Original Design Manufacturing ("ODM") and OEM operations and our expansion into the video game accessories market. We cannot assure you that such product lines can be retained or that we will be successful in such ventures. NO ASSURANCE OF CONTINUED ODM/OEM OPERATIONS Our contracts with ODM and OEM customers can generally be terminated by either party on short notice; therefore we cannot assure you that such business can be retained for an extended period of time. Loss of such operations would materially affect our revenues. DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL Our success is substantially dependent upon the expertise and services of our senior management personnel. The loss of the services of senior executives would have an adverse effect on our business. SEASONALITY We experience a significant seasonal pattern in our operating results and working capital requirements. We typically generate most of our sales in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, prior to the traditional gift season. The high level of seasonality causes us to take large risks in the purchase of inventory and extending credit to customers for the holiday season. We cannot assure you that we will sell all our inventories. Excess inventory at year-end may result in financial losses from obsolescence writedowns, returns, markdowns and bad debts. Our operating results may also fluctuate during the year due to other factors such as the timing of the introduction of new products. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors. These fluctuations are reflected in our statement regarding selected quarterly financial data attached as Exhibit 14.1 to this annual report. 10 INDUSTRY AND PRODUCT LINE VOLATILITY The toy and game industry is known for a high level of volatility as a result of changing consumer tastes, competition and over saturation of popular products. We have experienced significant volatility in our results in our past history. While we have diversified our business in recent years to reduce volatility, there can be no guarantee that this history of volatility will not continue. COMPETITION The electronic games and youth electronics and video game accessories market is highly competitive. We currently face direct competition from a number of other producers of handheld electronic games and video game accessories. The barriers for new producers to enter into our markets are relatively low and we expect that we will face increased competition in the future. Some competitors offer products at lower prices, are better established in the industry and are larger than we are. In addition, with respect to ODM and OEM, we compete with a number of substantially larger and more experienced manufacturers. As we enter other markets and businesses, we expect to face new competition. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS From time to time, other companies and individuals may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies or marks that are important to our industry generally or to our business specifically. We will evaluate each claim relating to our products or other aspects of our business and, if appropriate, will seek a license to use the protected technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses to intellectual property of third parties on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. If we or our suppliers are unable to license protected technology used in our products, we could be prohibited from marketing those products or may have to market products without desirable features. We could also incur substantial costs to redesign our products or to defend any legal action taken against us. If our products or manufacturing methods should be found to infringe protected technology, we could be enjoined from further infringement and required to pay damages to the infringed party. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. In 2005, Radica and our subsidiary Radica (Macao Commercial Offshore) Limited were involved in litigation initiated by AtGames Holdings Limited which challenged the exclusivity of Radica's rights to the Play TV Sega Genesis games. This litigation, which related to Sega Corporation and Sega Toys, was described in detail in Radica's Form 6-K reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, most recently in the Form 6-K dated December 19, 2005. In late December 2005, the arbitrator issued an interim decision in favor of Sega Corporation in its arbitration against AtGames. Subsequently, in January 2006, AtGames voluntarily dismissed (without prejudice) its complaint against Radica and Radica Macao. At present, there is no pending litigation or arbitration against the Radica parties arising out of this matter. However, we are considering whether to take legal action against the other companies involved in this matter with respect to infringement of Radica's intellectual property rights and, if such action is taken, counterclaims may be made against the Radica parties. We could incur substantial legal costs to initiate such actions and there is no guarantee that we would prevail. The Company's agreement with Sega Toys includes certain indemnity provisions that allow the Company to seek repayment of certain legal expenses in its defense of the AtGames lawsuit. The Company plans seek recovery of certain expenses under this agreement. On December 9, 2005 University Games Corporation filed a Notice of Opposition with the US Patent and Trademark Office opposing registration of a trademark application for "20Q" filed by 20Q.net, Inc., the inventor of the software licensed by Radica for use in our 20Q line of products. University Games claims that the trademark filed by 20Q.net could create confusion with the Twenty Questions trademark registration and game name they use for a board game that they distribute. Both 20Q.net and Radica believe that the Twenty Questions name is generic and not a valid trademark owned by University Games, and that University Games' opposition to the 20Q trademark application is without merit. In late January of 2006, 20Q.net filed a response to the Notice of Opposition and filed a counterclaim to cancel the Twenty Questions registration. In the event that University Games filed a federal district court case alleging trademark infringement, a court could order Radica to cease using the 20Q name or pay damages for past or future use of the 20Q name. PRODUCT LIABILITY Historically, we have received only minor complaints relating to injuries or other damages caused by our products. However, in recent years we have introduced products that involved more active play including our Play TV(R) baseball, snowboard and golf games. We may be exposed to claims for damages related to the use of our products, some or all of which may not be covered by insurance. We cannot guarantee you that current or future products may not result in claims or that our insurance will be adequate. 11 INCREASED TAXATION We cannot predict whether our tax rates will remain as low as they have been in the past as tax regulations and the application or interpretation in the various jurisdictions where we operate are always subject to change. Our taxes are subject to audit by the taxing authorities. We cannot guarantee that additional taxes will not be due as a result of audits or other factors. PRODUCT "KNOCK-OFFS" On occasion in the electronic games and video game accessories industries, successful products are "knocked-off" or copied. While we strive to protect our intellectual property we cannot guarantee that knock-offs will not have a significant effect on our business. The costs incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights could be significant and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our rights. BAD DEBTS AND RETURNS While we perform full credit checks on all of our customers we cannot be assured that any customer will not default on a payment of debt. A default could have a significant effect on our operating results. It is our policy in North America to only take back defective products and while we believe we will be able to enforce this policy under normal industry conditions, it may not be possible to enforce this policy in all cases. The video game accessories market generally experiences a higher rate of defective and overstock returns than the electronic and mechanical game market does. Generally, defective video game accessories that are manufactured by third party manufacturers are returned to the manufacturer or destroyed on site for credit. In such cases, there is no guarantee that we will be paid by the manufacturer. In certain instances, where retailers are unable to sell the quantity of products which have been ordered from us, we may, in accordance with industry practice, assist retailers to enable them to sell such excess inventory by offering discounts or accepting returns. A portion of firm orders, by their terms, may be canceled if shipment is not made by a certain date. We minimize the related costs of such discounts and returns by engaging personnel to visit selected customers and assist in the management of our product returns. We establish provisions based on historical experience at the time of sale of the related products. The return of non-defective products occurs infrequently in the U.S. In the U.K. market, accepting non-defective product returns occurs more frequently, requiring higher provisions. CONTROL BY EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS Our largest shareholders, including a group that consists of Dito Devcar Corporation and certain related persons, a group that consists of RAD Partners 1999 LLC and certain related persons, and Royce & Associates, LLC, own beneficially in the aggregate a majority of our outstanding common stock. Assuming that they were in agreement, such persons would have the power to elect our directors and to approve or disapprove all other matters requiring shareholder approval regardless of the vote of any other shareholders. DIFFICULTIES IN ENFORCING CIVIL LIABILITIES We are a Bermuda holding company, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, many of our directors and officers and the experts named herein reside outside the United States (principally in Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and China), and all or a substantial portion of their assets are or may be located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon them, or to enforce judgments against them or us obtained in the United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws. Among other things, we understand that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Bermuda and other foreign jurisdictions, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the United States securities laws. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE At December 31, 2005, we had 19,080,004 shares of common stock outstanding. We estimate that most of these shares were previously sold in registered offerings or in transactions under Rule 144, and therefore are tradable without restriction, other than any shares purchased by our "affiliates." The remaining shares owned by existing shareholders are restricted securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may be sold only pursuant to a registration statement or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements, including Rule 144. Most of these restricted shares are currently eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 12 144, subject to the limitations of that rule. Market sales of shares by existing shareholders or the availability of shares for future sale may depress the market price of our common stock. LICENSES AND ROYALTIES We have entered into various license and royalty agreements in which we pay fees in exchange for rights to use product inventions or trademarked names, shapes and likenesses for use in development of our product line. The agreements generally include minimum fee guarantees based on a reasonable expectation of the product sales to be generated throughout the life of the agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these expectations and if our sales do not reach a certain level agreed with our customers, we are required to at least pay the minimum fee under the agreement. Our license and royalty agreements are based on a fixed percentage of sales made during the period. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or extend the rights to our existing licenses. Several of our licenses apply to products that generate a large volume of sales. Were we unable to maintain these licenses, the lost sales could have a significant impact on future earnings. LABOR Labor disputes initiated by unions and trade groups could negatively impact our business or the business of our vendors and customers. Such disputes could ultimately cause shipping delays, increased costs and lost revenues resulting from failure to deliver product to customers. We have no way of anticipating when such actions will occur. None of our employees are in labor unions or trade groups. DEPENDENCE ON VIDEO GAME ACCESSORIES ("VGA") PLATFORM PROVIDERS Our VGA product line (Gamester(R)), is dependent on first party manufacturers of video game consoles such as Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo to continue to support and market existing games platforms like PlayStation(R) 2, PSP(TM), Xbox(TM), Game Boy(R) Advance and Game Boy(R) Advance SP(TM), and to continue to develop gaming formats and accompanying software in the future. We cannot guarantee success in this category without the ongoing support of these platform providers. If a platform is withdrawn from the market or fails to sell, we may be forced to liquidate our inventories or accept returns resulting in significant losses. During 2005, Microsoft introduced its Xbox 360 platform. Prior to introduction of the platform, our management attempted to negotiate a licensing agreement to manufacture and distribute accessories for Xbox 360 but were unable to reach an agreement that made commercial and financial sense for Radica. Currently we have no plans or intention to seek an agreement with Microsoft. Sony has not announced the introduction date of the Playstation(R) 3 platform. Sony typically does not enter into licensing agreements for platform accessories and we have no assurance that we will be able to successfully engineer and manufacture accessories for the new platform when it is brought to market. SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME ("SARS") OR OTHER COMMUNICABLE DISEASES In 2003, several economies in Asia, including Hong Kong and southern China, where our operations are located, were affected by the outbreak of SARS. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, or similar infectious or contagious diseases such as avian flu, it could adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, a future SARS outbreak could result in quarantines or closures to our factory, and our operations could be seriously disrupted as the majority of our work force is housed in a single dormitory. In addition, ongoing concerns regarding SARS, particularly its effect on travel, could negatively impact our customers and suppliers, in particular their willingness to travel to do business. ADVERSE WORLDWIDE AND LOCAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS Worldwide and local economic and political conditions can have a significant negative impact on our Company. Examples of these conditions include the impact of wars such as the Iraq conflict. Natural disasters such as devastating typhoons or the recent tsunami in South East Asia. Laws may be passed that impact the costs of manufacturing products such as the EU's recent RoHS Directive. Laws may be passed banning certain types of toys such as toy guns in states or local municipalities. Terrorist attacks may result in major economic disruptions affecting sales in areas or around the world. Ports or shipping lines may be impacted by many factors including labor disputes, storms and security measures. Shortages may occur in critical materials and components as well as labor. Inflation may accelerate in one or many economic sectors such as the increase in the price of oil and its impact on plastics, other materials and shipping costs. Countries may levy unfavorable duties and taxes or increase the minimum wage or work rules. Many of the factors can lower profits, restrict sales and damage the Company in many unforeseen 13 ways. These uncertainties make it difficult for us to estimate growth or profits in the regional economies where we sell our products and therefore may negatively affect our financial results. VOLATILE MASS MARKET RETAIL SECTOR Most of our sales are made to mass-market retailers. The mass-market retail channel in the U.S. has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years, causing several of our customers to experience liquidity problems, including several customers that have filed for bankruptcy during the past three years. While we attempt to minimize our credit exposure, there is always a risk that our customers will not pay or that they will delay payment, subjecting us to exposure to bad debt losses. In addition, if these customers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales. HONG KONG REAL ESTATE We own certain commercial properties in Hong Kong, some of which we occupy and one of which we lease to a third party. Market values of Hong Kong real estate dropped significantly during 1997 to 2003 but in the recent two years, the properties market has staged a strong recovery. While we expect commercial real estate values to continue their recovery, we cannot assure you that our commercial properties will follow. CUSTOMER COMPLIANCE Periodically, our factory is inspected by auditors either employed by or contracted by individual customers to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety and social standards. These standards can vary widely by customer and failure to meet customer standards can lead to fines and suspension or termination of shipping from our factory to the customer. The management team makes every reasonable effort to ensure that we are in compliance with all of our customers' safety and social standards, but there is no assurance that customer auditors will find us in compliance. Failure to comply could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues. CURRENCY VALUATION Efforts to increase worldwide distribution have made our business increasingly global. We expect that international sales may continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Although most of our international sales are denominated in the US dollars, fluctuations in foreign currencies may have an impact on our financial results. We are prepared to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currencies if the exposure is material, and held Chinese Renminbi (RMB) deposits of RMB55.5 million at the end of 2005 (approximately US$6.9 million) to reduce the foreign currency exposure against future movements of the RMB against the US dollar. We have monetary asset and liability balances in foreign currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Pound Sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar and the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB. International distribution and sales revenues usually are made by our subsidiaries in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, and are denominated typically in their local currency. However, the expenses incurred by these subsidiaries are also denominated in the local currency. As a result, our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the United States Dollar and the Pound Sterling, the RMB or the Canadian dollar. Currently China's currency, the RMB, is pegged to a basket of currencies. On July 21, 2005, China allowed the RMB to appreciate 2.1 percent against the dollar, but the Chinese Government continues to receive pressure from other governments to trade its currency on the open market and allow it to move in a wider band than before. If the Chinese Government were to trade its currency freely on the open market and the RMB were to increase in value relative to the U.S. dollar, we would experience increased factory and production costs, including labor and certain raw materials that could have a material impact on the cost of our products. EFFICACY OF ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION Radica promotes some of its products through advertising and promotion. This promotion occurs primarily in the second half of the year during the traditional holiday season and includes television commercials, magazine and newspaper advertisements, in-store displays and viral marketing campaigns orchestrated by contracted public relations firms. During 2005, we spent $12.3 14 million on such programs. Our ability to sell products is dependent in part on our ability to successfully advertise and promote our products. If the cost of these programs increases or if we were unsuccessful in our efforts to advertise and promote our products, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. ROHS COMPLIANCE Pursuant to Directive 2002/95/EC (on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances) of the European Parliament, effective July 1, 2006, new electrical and electronic equipment put on the European market may not contain lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) or polybrominated dephenyl ethers (PBDE). As lead is currently the main ingredient in our soldering process we are changing to 'lead free soldering'. In order to do this we have purchased certain surface mount technology (SMT) equipment and are in the process of setting up a lead free workshop within our Dongguan factory. Our goal is to have this workshop fully operational by March 31, 2006. In the event that we are not successful either we will have to have product assembled at another facility that can produce product to this standard or stop shipping to the European Union. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS Changing laws, regulation and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the US Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), and the NASDAQ National Market ("NASDAQ"), are making some activities more time consuming. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and the registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we expect to incur substantial additional expenses and diversion of management's time. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by our December 31, 2006 deadline (this deadline may be extended to December 31, 2007 depending on whether our stock value is beneath certain market capitalization thresholds as of June 30, 2006), we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is presently no definitive standard available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are unable to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action could harm our business or investors' confidence in our Company, and could cause the stock price to fall. 