Risk Factors We are engaged in a business strategy that includes the long-term growth of our operations. The success of a business strategy, by its very nature, involves a significant number of risks, many of which are discussed below: Our success depends on our ability to compete with our competitors. The foodservice industry is intensely competitive with respect to the quality and value of food products offered, service, price, dining experience and location. We compete with major restaurant chains, some of which dominate the QSR industry. Our competitors also include a variety of mid-price, full-service casual-dining restaurants, health and nutrition-oriented restaurants, delicatessens and prepared food restaurants, take-out food service companies, fast food restaurants, supermarkets and convenience stores. In addition to competing with such companies for customers, we also must compete with them for access to qualified employees and management personnel, suitable restaurant locations and capable franchisees. Many of our competitors have substantially greater brand recognition, as well as greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages with respect to some or all of these areas of competition. As our competitors expand operations and marketing campaigns, we expect competition to intensify. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We may be unable to recover increased operating costs through price increases. The QSR industry has historically attracted consumers that are lower income and/or pressed for time. An economic downturn that decreases our customers’ disposable incomes could have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. In addition, unfavorable macroeconomic trends or developments concerning factors such as increased food, labor and benefits costs and availability of experienced employees may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to increase prices to match increased costs without further harming our sales. If we were unable to raise prices in order to recover increased costs for food, packaging, fuel, utilities, wages, clothing and equipment, our profitability would be negatively affected. Restrictive covenants in our credit facility and outstanding senior indebtedness could adversely affect our business. Our Facility and our other outstanding senior indebtedness contain restrictive covenants and, in the case of our Facility, requirements that we comply with certain financial ratios. Certain of these covenants limit our ability to take various actions, including the incurrence of additional debt, the guaranteeing of indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, and making specified distributions or other restricted payments, including capital expenditures and other investments. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Failure to maintain financial ratios required by our Facility or to comply with the covenants in our Facility or our other indebtedness could also result in acceleration of our indebtedness, which would impair our liquidity and limit our ability to operate. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on the continuing services of our key management personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. 11 Table of Contents Our success depends on our franchisees’ participation in our strategy. Our franchisees are an integral part of our business. We may be unable to successfully implement our brand strategies if our franchisees do not actively participate in that implementation. The failure of our franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness, would have a negative impact on our success. Our financial results are affected by the financial results of our franchisees. We receive royalties from our franchisees. As a result, our financial results are somewhat dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees, including implementation of our strategic plans, as well as their ability to secure adequate financing. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for our franchisees, their financial health may worsen, our collection rates may decline and we may be required to assume the responsibility for additional lease payments on franchised restaurants. Additionally, refusal on the part of franchisees to renew their franchise agreements may result in decreased royalties. Entering into restructured franchise agreements may result in reduced franchise royalty rates in the future. Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions, economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect our operating results. The QSR industry is affected by changes in economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and the effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto. Multi-location foodservice businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, food tampering, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. We can be similarly affected by consumer concerns with respect to the nutritional value of quick-service food. Factors such as interest rates, inflation, gasoline prices, commodity costs, labor and benefits costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. In particular, increases in interest rates may increase land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds, and thereby adversely affect our ability and our franchisees’ ability to finance new restaurant development and improvements and additions to existing restaurants. In addition, inflation can cause increased commodity and labor and benefits costs and can increase our operating expenses. We face commodity price and availability risks. We and our franchisees purchase large quantities of food and supplies which may be subject to substantial price fluctuations. We purchase agricultural and livestock products that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply, global demand, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar, commodity market conditions and other factors that are not predictable or within our control. Increases in commodity prices could result in higher restaurant operating costs. Since we have a higher concentration of company-operated restaurants than many of our competitors, we may have greater operating cost exposure than those competitors who are more heavily franchised. Occasionally, the availability of commodities can be limited due to circumstances beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain such commodities, we may be unable to offer related products, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. We depend on our suppliers to deliver quality products to us timely. Our profitability is dependent on, among other things, our continuing ability to offer premium-quality food at moderate prices. While we continue to operate our own distribution business for most of our Carl’s Jr. system, we rely upon an independent distributor for our Hardee’s restaurants. Our Hardee’s restaurants depend on the distribution services of MBM, a national distributor of food and other products. MBM is responsible for delivering food, packaging and other products from our suppliers to our Hardee’s restaurants on a frequent and routine basis. MBM also provides distribution services to nearly all of our Hardee’s franchisees. Pursuant to the terms of our distribution agreement, we are obligated to purchase substantially all of our specified product 12 Table of Contents requirements from MBM through July 14, 2010. We cannot, however, predict the terms or prices upon which we will be able to purchase supplies from MBM, or from any other supplier, after expiration of the agreement. Significant increases in fuel costs could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our suppliers and distributors which could adversely affect our operating margins if we do not pass such increased costs through in our prices. In addition, our dependence on frequent deliveries of food and packaging products subjects our restaurants to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, caused by adverse weather, catastrophic events or other conditions outside of our control, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. Any disruption in these distribution services could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether accurate or not , could reduce the production and supply of important food products, cause damage to our reputation and adversely affect our sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (commonly known as mad cow disease), hepatitis A or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering have, in the past, severely impacted the production and supply of certain food products, including poultry and beef. A reduction in the supply of such food products could have a material effect on the price at which we could obtain them. Failure to procure food products, such as poultry or beef, at reasonable terms and prices or any reduction in consumption of such food products by consumers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, reports, whether or not true, of food-borne illnesses or the use of hormones, antibiotics or pesticides in the production of certain food products may cause consumers to reduce or avoid consumption of such food products. Our brands’ reputations are important assets to us, and any such reports could damage our brands’ reputations and immediately and severely hurt sales and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses or food tampering, we could be forced to temporarily close some, or all, of our restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering occurring at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the QSR industry, adversely affect our sales on a local, regional, or national basis. Our operations are seasonal and heavily influenced by weather conditions. Weather, which is unpredictable, can adversely impact our sales. Harsh weather conditions that discourage customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. A heavy snowstorm can leave an entire metropolitan area snowbound, resulting in a reduction in sales. Our first and fourth quarters, most notably the fourth quarter, include winter months when there is historically a lower level of sales. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods adversely impacts our profitability. These adverse, weather-driven events have a more pronounced impact on our Hardee’s restaurants. For these reasons, a sequential quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. Our business may suffer due to our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel and due to higher labor costs. Given that our restaurant-level workforce requires large numbers of both entry-level and skilled employees, low levels of unemployment could compromise our ability to provide quality service in our restaurants. From time to time, we have had difficulty hiring and maintaining qualified restaurant management personnel. Increases in the minimum wage have negatively impacted our labor costs. Due to the labor-intensive nature of our business, a continuing shortage of labor or increases in minimum wage levels could have additional negative effects on our consolidated results of operations. Our business may be impacted by increased insurance and/or self-insurance costs. In the past, we have been negatively affected by increases in both workers’ compensation and general liability insurance and claims expense due to our claims experience and rising healthcare costs. Although we seek to manage 13 Table of Contents our claims to prevent increases, such increases can occur unexpectedly and without regard to our efforts to limit them. If such increases occur, we may be unable to pass them along to the consumer through product price increases, resulting in decreased operating results. Our financial results may be impacted by our ability to select appropriate restaurant locations, construct new restaurants or complete remodels. Our strategic plan, and a component of our business strategy, includes the construction of new restaurants and the remodeling of existing restaurants. We and our franchisees face competition from other restaurant operators, retail chains, companies and developers for desirable site locations, which may adversely affect the cost, implementation and timing of our expansion plans. If we experience delays in the construction process, we may be unable to complete such construction activities at the planned cost, which would adversely affect our future results from operations. Additionally, we cannot assure you that such remodels will increase the revenues generated by these restaurants or be sustainable. Likewise, we cannot be sure that the sites we select for new restaurants will result in restaurants whose sales results meet our expectations. We are subject to certain health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage to our reputation and lower profits. We, and our franchisees, are subject to various federal, state and local laws. The successful development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor and immigration law, (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime pay practices, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the ADA. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among restaurants. As a result, we may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with our franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Changes in applicable accounting rules imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could also affect our reported results of operations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We have experienced and expect further increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. We are also subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. These laws govern discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. These laws may also impose liability for damages from and the costs of cleaning up sites of spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. We may be responsible for environmental conditions or contamination relating to our restaurants and the land on which our restaurants are located, regardless of whether we lease or own the restaurant or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant. The costs 14 Table of Contents of any cleanup could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brands and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use existing trademarks, service marks and other components of our brands in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could limit the ability of our stockholders to effect a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include several provisions and features intended to render more difficult certain unsolicited or hostile attempts to acquire our business. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our stockholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix the rights, preferences and restrictions of such preferred stock. These provisions may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face risks related to interest rates. Our principal exposures to financial market risks are the impact that interest rate changes could have on our Facility, the magnitude of which depends on the amount of borrowings we have outstanding, and on the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements. As of January 31, 2008, under the revolving portion of our Facility, we had $66,500 in borrowings that either bore interest at Prime plus an applicable margin, or 7.00%, or were locked in at the London Inter Bank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.50% for fixed terms of approximately 30 days, per the terms of our Facility. As of January 31, 2008, borrowings on the revolving loan bore interest at a weighted-average rate of 5.76% per annum. As of January 31, 2008, we also had $268,225 outstanding under the term loan portion of our Facility, which bore interest at LIBOR plus an applicable margin, or a weighted-average rate of 5.51%, and $38,247 in outstanding letters of credit, which bore fees at 1.50%. The fair value of our interest rate swap agreements, which effectively fix future interest payments on $200,000 of our term loan debt at 6.2159% through March 2012, is directly linked both to current interest rates and to expected future interest rates over their remaining term. These interest rate swap agreements are highly sensitive to interest rate fluctuations which could result in significant variability in their future fair value. If there was no additional change to the aggregate fair value of these financial instruments between March 19, 2008 and May 19, 2008, we would expect interest expense during our first quarter of fiscal 2009 to include an additional charge of $3,876, representing a change in the fair value of the liability for these financial instruments from $11,380 as of January 31, 2008 to $15,256 as of May 19, 2008. Our financial results may be impacted by changes in accounting policies and practices. As of the beginning of fiscal 2008, we adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”), which required us to recognize, in the financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Future changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) may materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations if we are required to change our methods of accounting for transactions. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of accounting pronouncements not yet adopted. 15 Table of Contents Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of franchisees, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from our suppliers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 