Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results, would likely suffer. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have a history of losses and may realize future losses Our revenues increased approximately 48% during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to an increase in production volumes. However, we may not achieve, or subsequently maintain profitability if our revenues do not increase in the future. We have experienced operating losses, negative cash flow from operations and net losses in most quarterly and annual periods for the past several years. As of December 31, 2014, our net operating loss carry forward was approximately $63.6 million and our accumulated deficit was approximately $63.3 million. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with exploration and development of new and existing properties. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve, attain, and eventually sustain profitability. If revenues do not increase, we may be unable to attain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any of these factors could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Future capital requirements after 2014 may require additional capital borrowing or selling equity or other securities that would dilute the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. Such securities could also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Similarly, if we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, those securities may contain covenants that restrict us in terms of how we operate our business, which could also affect the value of our common stock. If we borrow more money, we will have to pay interest and may also have to agree to restrictions that limit operating flexibility. We may not be able to obtain funds needed to finance operations at all, or may be able to obtain funds only on very unattractive terms. Management may also explore other alternatives such as a joint venture with other oil and gas companies. There can be no assurances, however, that we will conclude any such transaction. The Morgan Stanley Credit Agreement contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. The Morgan Stanley Credit Agreement restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or liens; • enter into fundamental changes; • dispose of property; 8 Table of Contents • pay dividends or distributions; • make capital expenditures or investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into certain hedging transactions; • create or acquire subsidiaries; • drill without providing title opinions; • amend certain documents; and • appoint non-approved officers or directors. In addition, we will be required to use substantial portions of our future cash flow to repay principal and interest on our indebtedness. The Morgan Stanley Credit Agreement also includes certain customary affirmative covenants such as minimum hedging requirements, delivery of financial information, operation and maintenance of properties, and maintenance of books and records. Financial covenants include a maximum leverage ratio (latest twelve months EBITDA to net debt) and minimum current ratio (consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities). American Shale is also required to apply toward approved capital expenditures a minimum of 50% of the proceeds of any equity issuance that occurs subsequent to the first anniversary of the Funding Date. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, an event of default would occur under our Morgan Stanley Credit Agreement. Our borrowings under Morgan Stanley Credit Agreement expose us to interest rate risk. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under the Morgan Stanley Credit Agreement, which bear interest at a rate that is based on the LIBOR plus 9%. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A decrease in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Energy commodity prices have been historically highly volatile, and such high levels of volatility are expected to continue in the future. We cannot accurately predict the market prices that we will receive for the sale of our natural gas, condensate, or oil production. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to a variety of additional factors beyond our control, which include, but are not limited to: changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; market uncertainty; weather conditions in the United States; the condition of the United States economy; the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; governmental regulation; political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere; the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; the price of foreign oil and natural gas imports; the availability of alternate fuel sources; and transportation interruption. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves, borrowing capacity, our ability to obtain additional capital, and the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. A substantial portion of our reserves and production is natural gas. Prices for natural gas have been lower in recent years than at various times in the past and may remain lower in the future. Sustained low prices for natural gas may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Natural gas prices have been lower in recent years than at various times in the past. These lower prices may be the result of increased supply resulting from increased drilling in unconventional reservoirs and/or lower demand resulting from changes in economic activity. Natural gas prices may remain at current levels, or fall to lower levels, in the future. Approximately 91% of our estimated net proved reserves is natural gas, and approximately 82% of our production in 2014 was natural gas. Although we expect natural gas production operations on properties we currently own to be profitable at natural gas prices in effect during the past year, a period of sustained low natural gas prices could have adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, see below for a discussion of the uncertainties involved in these processes. Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • unexpected pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and fluids; • fires and natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have less experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale (only 36 wells drilled since 2010) and limited information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Marcellus Shale. Wells drilled to this shale are more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completion techniques than wells in other conventional areas. We have drilled only 36 Marcellus Shale wells since 2010, including limited horizontal drilling and completion experience. Other operators in the Marcellus Shale play may have significantly more experience in the drilling and completion of these wells, including the drilling and completion of horizontal wells. In addition, we have limited information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and production decline rates in these areas. The wells drilled in the Marcellus Shale are primarily horizontal and require more stimulation, which makes them more expensive to drill and complete. The wells are also more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore due to the length of the lateral portions of these unconventional wells. The fracturing of these shale formations will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing geological formations in conventional areas of operation. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. We cannot predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. 10 Table of Contents The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. We may, from time to time, encounter difficulty in obtaining, or an increase in the cost of securing, drilling rigs, equipment, services and supplies. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment and services by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our reserve estimates may turn out to be incorrect if the assumptions upon which these estimates are based are inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projected future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, drilling, testing and production data acquired subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, the timing and identification of future drilling locations, prices, future production levels and costs that may not prove correct over time. Predictions of future production levels, development schedules (particularly with regard to non-operated properties), prices and future operating costs are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. The present value of net proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the present value, discounted at 10%, of the pre-tax future net cash flows attributable to our net proved reserves on the average oil and natural gas prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of the-month price for each month within such period, adjusted for quality and transportation. The costs to produce the reserves remain constant at the costs prevailing on the date of the estimate. Actual current and future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which the SEC requires us to use in calculating our discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital from time to time and/or the risks associated with our business. Current SEC requirements also state that proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of initial booking. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program, particularly as we develop our acreage in the Marcellus Shale in West Virginia. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill and develop those reserves within the required five-year timeframe. Our operations require significant amounts of capital and additional financing may be necessary in order for us to continue our exploration and development activities, including meeting certain drilling obligations under our existing lease obligations Our cash flow from our reserves may not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times. From time to time, we may require additional financing in order to carry out our oil and gas acquisitions, exploration and development activities. Failure to obtain such financing on a timely basis could cause us to forfeit our interest in certain properties as a result of not fulfilling our existing drilling commitments. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established or we meet certain capital expenditure and drilling requirements. If our revenues from our reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or production, it will affect our ability to expend the necessary capital to replace our reserves or to maintain our current production. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements or available to us on favorable terms. 11 Table of Contents We have limited control over activities conducted on properties we do not operate. We own interests in properties that are operated by third parties. The success, timing and costs of drilling, completion, and other development activities on our non-operated properties depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. Because we have only a limited ability to influence and control the operations of our non-operated properties, we can give no assurances that we will realize our targeted returns with respect to those properties. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to effectively market production and may ultimately affect our financial results. The ability to market oil and natural gas depends on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the availability of pipeline, rail and refinery capacity, including facilities owned and operated by third parties; • the availability of satisfactory transportation arrangements for our oil and natural gas production; • the proximity of natural gas production to natural gas pipelines; • the effects of inclement weather; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternative fuel sources; • state and federal regulations of oil and natural gas marketing and transportation; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. Because of these factors and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to market all of the oil and natural gas that we produce. In addition, we may be unable to obtain favorable prices for the oil and natural gas we produce. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Congress has recently considered, is considering, and may continue to consider, legislation that, if adopted in its proposed or similar form, would deprive some companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of certain U.S. federal income tax incentives and deductions currently available to such companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition. Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in oil and natural gas leases is not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to drilling an exploration well, the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drill site lease or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. It does happen, from time-to-time, that the examination made by the operator’s title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations which could adversely affect our business. Exploration for and development, exploitation, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws, regulations or incremental taxes and fees, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. It is possible that new taxes on our industry could be implemented and/or tax benefits could be eliminated or reduced, reducing our profitability and available cash flow. In addition to the short-term negative impact on our financial results, such additional burdens, if enacted, would reduce our funds available for reinvestment and thus ultimately reduce our growth and future oil and natural gas production. 12 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our production. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require that we acquire permits before developing our properties; • restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, completion and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; and • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells. Under these laws and regulations or under the common law, we could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental, natural resource and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We could also be affected by more stringent laws and regulations adopted in the future, including any related to climate change, engine emissions, greenhouse gases and hydraulic fracturing. We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but do not maintain insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability in excess of our insurance coverage or may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce. More stringent laws and regulations relating to climate change and GHGs may be adopted and could cause us to incur material expenses to comply. In the absence of comprehensive federal legislation on GHG emission control, the EPA attempted to require the permitting of GHG emissions; although the Supreme Court struck down the permitting requirements, it upheld the EPA’s authority to control GHG emissions when a permit is required due to emissions of other pollutants. The EPA also requires the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities, which may include facilities we operate. Reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities is required on an annual basis. We will have to incur costs associated with this reporting obligation. In addition, the United States Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce or measure GHG emission levels, often involving the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs require major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to reduce overall GHG emissions. The cost of these allowances could escalate significantly over time. The adoption and implementation of any legislation or regulatory programs imposing GHG reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Potential physical effects of climate change could adversely affect our operations and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In an interpretative guidance on climate change disclosures, the SEC indicates that climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our exploration and production operations, including the hydraulic fracturing of our wells, have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include disruption of our production activities, including, for example, damages to our facilities from powerful winds or increases in our costs of operation or reductions in the efficiency of our operations, as well as potentially increased costs for insurance coverages in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. 13 Table of Contents We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for our drilling operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process, and may result in delays and restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of natural gas or oil may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but is not subject to regulation at the federal level (except for fracturing activity involving the use of diesel). The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, but the final study has not yet been released. A committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation was introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. Some states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations requiring disclosure of chemicals in fluids used in hydraulic fracturing or other restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells; testing of nearby water wells; restrictions on access to, and usage of, water; and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. Any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing activities and thereby affect our determination of whether a well is commercially viable. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements or operational restrictions and also to associated permitting delays and potential increases in costs. We have conducted hydraulic fracturing operations on most of our existing wells, and we anticipate conducting hydraulic fracturing operations on substantially all of our future wells. As a result, restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce in commercial quantities and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Any derivative transactions we enter into may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. We enter into financial derivative transactions from time to time to manage our exposure to commodity price risks. These transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices rise above the levels established by our derivative transactions. These transactions may also expose us to other risks of financial losses, for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a derivative instrument or if a counterparty to our derivative instruments fails to perform its obligations under a derivatives transaction. The enactment of the Dodd–Frank Act could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for swaps and other financial derivative transactions, including certain oil and gas hedging transactions. In its rulemaking under the Dodd–Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. In September 2012, The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated and remanded the rules for position limits adopted by the CFTC in October 2011 based on a necessity finding. Position limits may be imposed upon certain derivative transactions, which may restrict our ability to utilize these products. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties or curtail our dealings with that counterparty. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The rulemaking process under the Dodd-Frank Act has not been completed, and the timeframes for compliance with rules under the Dodd-Frank Act that are effective remain uncertain. Consequently, it is not possible at this time to determine the full effect that the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our ability to continue to use the derivative products we currently utilize. We depend on a relatively small number of purchasers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of purchasers. Any substituted purchasers may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. We compete with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of our business. Our competitors in development, exploration, acquisitions and production include major integrated oil and natural gas companies as well as numerous independents, including many that have significantly greater resources. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. We also compete for the materials, equipment and services that are necessary for the exploration, development and operation of our properties. Our ability to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on our ability to select and acquire suitable prospects for future exploration and development. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include: • our access to the capital necessary to drill and complete wells and acquire properties; • our ability to acquire and analyze seismic, geological and other information relating to a property; • our ability to retain the personnel necessary to properly evaluate seismic and other information relating to a property; • our ability to procure materials, equipment and services required to explore, develop and operate our properties; and • our ability to access pipelines, and the locations of facilities used to produce and transport oil and natural gas production. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and cause our stock price to be volatile which could cause the value of your investment in our shares to decline. Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline which may cause the value of your investment to decline. Some of the factors that could affect quarterly or annual operating results or impact the market price of our common stock include: • our ability to develop properties and to market our oil and gas; • the timing and amount of, or cancellation or rescheduling of, orders for our oil and gas; • our ability to retain key management, sales and marketing and engineering personnel; • a decrease in the prices of oil and gas; and • changes in costs of exploration or marketing of oil and gas. Due to these and other factors, quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. 15 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by any adverse economic developments in the oil and gas industry and/or the economy in general. The oil and gas industry is susceptible to significant change that may influence our business development due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Some of these factors include: • varying demand for oil and gas; • fluctuations in price; • competitive factors that affect pricing; • attempts to expand into new markets; • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations; • hiring and retention of key personnel; • changes in generally accepted accounting policies, especially those related to the oil and gas industry; and • new government legislation or regulation. Any of the above factors or a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry or with economic conditions generally, could have a negative effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. Our future success depends on retaining existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract new key employees could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, resulting in lost profitability and a slower rate of growth. We do not carry, nor do we anticipate obtaining, “key man” insurance on our executives. It would be difficult for us to replace any one of these individuals. In addition, we may need to hire additional key personnel as we grow. We may not be able to identify and attract high quality employees or successfully assimilate new employees into our existing management structure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected. The ability to manage and operate our business as we execute our anticipated growth will require effective planning. Significant future growth could strain our internal resources, leading to a lower quality of service and other problems that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our operations could be adversely affected, resulting in slower growth and a failure to achieve or sustain profitability. Cyber-attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production and financial activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and third party partners. Unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary information could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions in our exploration or production operations. Also, computers control nearly all of the oil and gas distribution systems in the United States and abroad, which are necessary to transport our production to market. A cyber-attack directed at oil and gas distribution systems could damage critical distribution and storage assets or the environment, delay or prevent delivery of production to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. While our operations and financial condition have not been materially and adversely affected by cyber-attacks, there is no assurance that we will not suffer such attacks and resulting losses in the future. Further, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber-attacks. Risks relating to ownership of our common stock The price of our common stock is extremely volatile and investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above their purchase price, or at all. 16 Table of Contents Our common stock is presently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, although there is no assurance that a viable market will continue. The price of our shares in the public market is highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially because of: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in or failure to meet market expectations; • conditions and trends in the oil and gas industry; and • fluctuations in stock market price and volume, which are particularly common among securities of small capitalization companies. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market value to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. If we do not generate cash from our operations to finance future business, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing opportunities. The issuance of a substantial number of our common shares to individuals or in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any such issuances would dilute the equity interests of existing stockholders. We do not intend to pay dividends To date, we have never declared or paid a cash dividend on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for growth and development of the business; therefore, we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Possible “Penny Stock” Regulation Trading of our common stock on the Bulletin Board may be subject to certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, commonly referred to as the “penny stock” rule. A penny stock is generally defined to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in our stock will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. These may require a broker dealer to: • make a special suitability determination for purchasers of penny stocks; • receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase; and • deliver to a prospective purchaser of a penny stock, prior to the first transaction, a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. Consequently, penny stock rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock. Also, many prospective investors may not want to get involved with the additional administrative requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on the trading of our shares. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 