ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a number of very significant risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this report in evaluating our company and its business before purchasing shares of our company's common stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. You could lose all or part of your investment due to any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Company Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our business to date and our future viability. We are in the early stage of operations and development and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our current business and prospects. For example, we are in the early stages of building our sales and marketing strategy and organization. Our operations and development are subject to all of the risks inherent in the growth of an early stage company. We will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we face. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug development technology and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future. We expect to continue to incur losses. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our losses are likely to be primarily attributable to personnel costs, working capital costs, marketing costs, research and development costs and regulatory approval costs as well as the costs associated with in-licensing of our products. We may never achieve sustained profitability. We may need additional financing. We may need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We intend to finance our business, in part, through the private placement and public offering of equity and debt securities as needed. We have historically financed our operations primarily from proceeds of registered direct offerings and private placements of equity securities and the sale of securities we acquired through investments made in other companies. In the event that we raise additional equity capital, investors’ interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional equity securities, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control. When we need additional financing, we cannot provide assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: ● continue marketing and sales efforts with respect to Soltamox and Bionect and begin commercialization of Gelclair or any other products; ● successfully build a portfolio of additional products for commercialization; ● continue the development of our active drug development programs; ● successfully out-license, otherwise monetize or commercialize any of our programs; or continue operations. 12 Back to Table of Contents Our business depends on successful license and other collaborative arrangements. Our business strategy requires us to in-license products for commercialization, enter into collaborative agreements with drug manufacturers and out-license or sell our internally developed drug candidates that have reached a certain level of clinical development. These measures are critical to successfully building our portfolio of oncological products for commercialization. We may not be able to secure needed licensing or other partnering arrangements, and any such arrangements, even if completed successfully, may not be on terms favorable to us, may not perform as expected, may result in unexpected liabilities and may never contribute significant revenues or cash flow. We depend to a significant extent on the expertise of and dedication of sufficient resources by our licensors, licensees and partners to develop and commercialize products. Each individual licensor, licensee or corporate partner will control the amount and timing of resources devoted by it to these activities. Moreover, the success of any such licenses or other alliances depends in part upon such partners’ own marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative marketing partners and strategies. Corporate partners may pursue alternative technologies or develop products that are competitive with our products. Disputes may arise between us and one or more of our collaborative partners regarding our collaborative arrangements. In such an event, we may be required to initiate or defend expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings or to seek and attempt to reach agreement with another collaborative partner. We may not be able to resolve successfully a dispute with a collaborative partner or to enter into a satisfactory arrangement with a replacement collaborative partner. The success of any products we may commercialize will depend on the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material product revenues and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the prevalence and severity of any side effects; ● the efficacy and potential advantages of alternative treatments; ● the prices of our product candidates; ● the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products; and ● sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Commercialization of a new product or a new method of use for an existing product involves risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. Commercialization of a new or newly launched product, including Soltamox and Gelclair, or a new method of use for an existing product involves risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. These risks include the following: ● the products, even if safe and effective, may be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or uneconomical to market; ● proprietary rights of third parties may prevent us from exploiting technologies or marketing products; and ● third parties may market superior or equivalent products. 13 Back to Table of Contents Our ability to commercialize our products will depend on our ability to: ● complete any necessary studies; ● obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; ● obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals related to the efficacy and safety of our products; ● enter into arrangements with manufacturers to provide manufacturing resources; and ● establish marketing and sales channels. We may not be successful in some or all of these initiatives. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively market our potential products. A significant part of our success depends on the various marketing strategies we plan to implement. Our business model was historically focused solely on product development, and until the launch of Soltamox, we have never attempted to commercialize any product. We are in the early stages of building our sales and marketing strategy and organization. There can be no assurance as to the success of any such marketing strategy or that we will be able to build a successful sales and marketing organization. If we cannot effectively market those products we seek to commercialize directly, such products’ prospects will be harmed. We anticipate that initially a relatively small group of products that we commercialize directly will represent a significant portion of net revenues. If the volume or pricing of any of these products declines, or we are unable to satisfy market demand for these products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We anticipate that initially sales of a limited number of our products will collectively represent a significant portion of our projected revenues. If the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future or we are unable to satisfy market demand for these products, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and our stock price could decline. If we are unable to continue to commercialize additional products in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may not achieve our expected revenue growth or profitability or such revenue growth and profitability, if any, could be delayed. Our future success will depend to a substantial degree on our ability to continue to commercialize new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The acquisition, development and commercialization of new products is complex, time-consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. We may, however, encounter unexpected delays in the launch of these products, or these products, when fully commercialized by us, may not perform as we expect. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to properly anticipate customer needs, obtain timely regulatory approvals and locate and establish collaborations for product development and finished product manufacturing in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, the acquisition, development and commercialization of new products is characterized by significant up-front costs, including costs associated with product development, obtaining regulatory approval, building inventory and sales and marketing. Furthermore, the development and commercialization of new products is subject to inherent risks, including the possibility that any new product may: ● fail to receive or encounter unexpected delays in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; ● be difficult or impossible to manufacture on a larger scale; 14 Back to Table of Contents ● be uneconomical to market; ● fail to be developed prior to the successful marketing of similar or superior products by third parties; and ● infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. We may not achieve our expected revenue growth or profitability or such revenue growth and profitability, if any, could be delayed if we are not successful in continuing to develop and commercialize new products. We plan to rely on third parties for the manufacture of our potential products, and if such parties fail to supply us with finished products in the quantities we require on a timely basis, sales of our products could be delayed or prevented, our revenues could decline and we may not achieve profitability. We currently do not intend to manufacture any products ourselves. Instead, we plan to rely on third parties to manufacture the products we seek to commercialize. If the third parties we contract with do not continue to provide these services to us as contracted, we may not be able to obtain these services from others in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms. Likewise, if we encounter delays or difficulties with our manufacturing partners in producing our products, the distribution, marketing and subsequent sales of these products could be adversely affected. If, for any reason, our third party manufacturers are unable to obtain or deliver sufficient quantities of finished products on a timely basis or we develop any significant disagreements with such parties, the manufacture or supply of our products could be disrupted, which may decrease our sales revenue, increase our operating expenses or otherwise negatively impact our operations. In addition, if we are unable to engage and retain third parties for the supply of finished products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to sell our products as planned. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products is highly exacting and complex and our manufacturing partners may experience problems during the manufacture of finished products for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, problems with raw materials, natural disaster related events or other environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. If we are unable to find alternative sources of finished products, this could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost sales and damage to customer relations. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to market, voluntary recalls, corrective actions or product liability related costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of our products could materially disrupt our business and reduce our revenues and prevent or delay us from achieving profitability. Any loss of our license rights to use certain critical intellectual property from Rosemont, Helsinn or other licensors for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business. Soltamox (tamoxifen citrate) oral solution, our first proprietary, FDA approved product, is a drug primarily used to treat breast cancer. We are party to an exclusive license and distribution agreement with Rosemont Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., a U.K. based manufacturer, for rights to market Soltamox in the United States. If we breach or fail to perform the material conditions of, including the minimum sales requirement, or fail to extend the term of the agreements under which we license critical intellectual property from Rosemont or other licensors, we may lose all or some of our rights to such intellectual property, and such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business. Gelclair is an FDA-cleared product indicated for the treatment of oral mucositis. We are party to an exclusive license and distribution agreement with Helsinn, a Switzerland based company, for rights to market Gelclair in the United States. If we breach or fail to perform the material conditions of the agreement, including the launch and minimum sales requirements, we may lose all or some of our rights to such intellectual property, and such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 Back to Table of Contents The drug candidate we are developing is in the early stages of development, and we may not be able to successfully develop this drug candidate into a commercially viable drug. The drug development process is highly uncertain, and we have not developed and may never develop a drug candidate that ultimately leads to a commercially viable drug. KRN5500 is in the early stages of development and has not been approved for commercial sale. Before a drug product is approved by the FDA for commercial marketing, it must be tested for safety and effectiveness in clinical trials that can take many years. Promising results in preclinical development or early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical and clinical trials. At any time, new safety information may lead the FDA to place a clinical trial on clinical hold, or permanently stop the trial. We or our collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical development process that could delay or prevent our drug candidate from being successfully commercialized, including: ● failure to achieve clinical trial results that indicate a product candidate is effective in treating a specified condition or illness in humans; ● safety issues, including the presence of harmful side effects; ● determination by the FDA that the submitted data do not satisfy the criteria for approval; ● new information that suggests lack of commercial viability of the drug; ● failure to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual property rights necessary for commercialization; and ● development of competing therapeutics that are more effective. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel (including a sales force). Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. We currently have seventeen full-time employees and one part-time employee, including a sales organization to commercialize products in accordance with our business plan. The loss of one or more members of managerial or scientific staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain management, particularly our Chief Executive Officer/Chief Medical Officer and our Chief Operating Officer/President, and to attract additional key sales and other personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to obtain patent protection on technologies and products and preserve trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or patents we are able to license will afford any competitive advantages or will not be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed or licensed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before any of our potential products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire, or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. Further, important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biotechnology products and processes in the U.S. and other important markets outside the U.S., such as Europe and Japan. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the U.S. patent system. In addition, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to take advantage of our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products. We cannot assure you that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. 16 Back to Table of Contents We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. While we take steps to protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, there can be no assurance that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. Our inability to manage our planned growth could harm our business. As we work toward building a portfolio of oncology treatment and supportive care pharmaceutical products and a sales organization that will market such products for sale we expect to require additional personnel. As a result, our operating expenses and capital requirements may increase significantly. Our ability to manage our growth effectively requires us to forecast accurately our sales and growth and manufacturing needs and to expend funds to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our business could be harmed. We may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisition of Oncogenerix, Inc., which may have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial, and operating results. We consummated the acquisition of Oncogenerix with the expectation that the transaction will result in benefits to the combined company. Post-transaction challenges include the following: ● successfully combining the operations of both companies; ● potentially higher than expected costs required to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and ● retaining and integrating management and employees. If the combined company is not successful in addressing these and other challenges, then the benefits of the acquisition may not be realized and, as a result, the combined company’s operating results and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Pharmaceutical Business The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and we may be unable to successfully compete against competitors with substantially more resources than we have. In general, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. The technological areas in which we work continue to evolve at a rapid pace. Competition from pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions is intense and we expect it to increase. Many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater capital resources, research and development capabilities and experience, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. Acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical companies or other companies could enhance the financial, marketing and other resources available to these competitors. 17 Back to Table of Contents An important factor in our ability to compete will be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we and competing companies can in-license and develop products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market will be an important element of market success. Other significant competitive factors include: ● product safety and efficacy; ● timing and scope of regulatory approval; ● product availability; ● marketing and sales capabilities; ● reimbursement coverage from insurance companies and others; ● the extent of clinical benefits and side effects of our products relative to their cost; ● price; ● patent protection; and ● capabilities of partners with whom we may collaborate. There can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than ours or that render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, within the drug development industry, established companies have actively pursued such infringements, and have initiated such claims and litigation, which has made the entry of competitive products more difficult. We may experience such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. We could also become involved in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights that relate to our technologies. These disputes could arise out of collaboration relationships, strategic partnerships or other relationships. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our failure to prevail in any such legal proceedings, or even the mere occurrence of such legal proceedings, could substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. If the healthcare system or reimbursement policies change, the prices of our potential products may be lower than expected and our potential sales may decline. The levels of revenues and profitability of bio-pharmaceutical companies like ours may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. In addition, in the U.S. and elsewhere, sales of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot assure you that any of our potential products will be considered cost effective or that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to sell our potential products on a competitive and profitable basis. 18 Back to Table of Contents Government regulation of our business is extensive and drug approvals are uncertain, expensive and time-consuming. The research, development, pre-clinical and clinical trials of most of our intended products are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and abroad, such as in Europe and Japan. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals for drug and biological products, including required pre-clinical and clinical testing, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or failure to comply with the applicable manufacturing, packaging, distribution and marketing requirements may result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible criminal sanctions. Currently we have only one drug candidate in development. A delay or setback in the clinical development of KRN5500 would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, as well as that of our manufacturers, is strictly regulated by the federal and other governments, and there can be no assurance that either we or our manufacturers will be able to maintain full compliance with all applicable regulations. Clinical testing and manufacture of our proposed products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA, and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations or policies could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals or clearances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining such regulatory approvals. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any enforcement action by regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to authorize the marketing of new products and criminal prosecution. Even if our proposed products are approved for market, we will be subject to continuing regulation. We and our collaborative partners, including our manufacturers, will continuously be subject to routine inspection by the FDA and will have to comply with the host of regulatory requirements that usually apply to pharmaceutical products marketed in the U.S., including labeling regulations, the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, Good Clinical Practices and Good Laboratory Practices, review and response to adverse drug experience reports and regulation governing marketing and promotion of approved drug products. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action or sanctions by the FDA, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Back to Table of Contents Our business exposes us to potential liability for personal injury or product liability claims that could affect our financial condition. Our business involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers and the use of our marketed products by patients. This exposes us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug. Many study volunteers and participants are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. If we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with clients and collaborative partners, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, we could be materially and adversely affected both financially and reputationally. Any such claims may also prevent us from being able to obtain adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. If we market our products in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, or if we violate false claims laws or fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or additional reimbursement requirements and sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws have been applied in recent years to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable, in whole or in part, under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare program. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending such healthcare items or services may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement in order to have a claim paid. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers, reporting inflated average wholesale prices to pricing services that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates and engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered, off-label uses. Such activities have been alleged to cause the resulting claims for reimbursement to be “false” claims. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. We anticipate that we will participate in the federal Medicaid Rebate Program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs, in connection with the sale of Soltamox and Gelclair and other future products we may commercialize. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we anticipate paying a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Service Act pharmaceutical pricing program, which requires us to sell our products to certain customers at prices lower than we otherwise might be able to charge. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, additional pricing laws and requirements apply. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under federal and state false claims laws in connection with allegedly inaccurate information submitted to the Medicaid Rebate Program or for knowingly submitting or using allegedly inaccurate pricing information in connection with federal pricing and discount programs. 20 Back to Table of Contents Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and may be subject to interpretation by us or our contractors, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. Our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. We or our contractors could make a mistake in calculating reported prices and required discounts, revisions to those prices and discounts, or determining whether a revision is necessary, which could result in retroactive rebates (and interest, if any). Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. If this were to occur, we could face, in addition to prosecution under federal and state false claims laws, substantial liability and civil monetary penalties, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines or imprisonment or the entry into a Corporate Integrity Agreement, Deferred Prosecution Agreement, or similar arrangement. In addition, federal legislation now imposes additional requirements. For example, as part of the PPACA, a federal physician payment disclosure provision based on the Physician Payments Sunshine Act was enacted, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report certain gifts and payments to physicians beginning in 2013. These reports will then be placed on a public database. Failure to so report could subject companies to significant financial penalties. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations, including anticipated activities conducted by our sales team in the sale of Soltamox and Gelclair, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in the dilution of our existing shareholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share. Our Board of Directors may choose to issue some or all of such shares to acquire one or more products and to fund our overhead and general operating requirements. The issuance of any such shares will reduce the book value per share and may contribute to a reduction in the market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuance will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current shareholders. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our corporation. Our stock price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock has been and may in the future continue to be extremely volatile. Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock, including: ● our inability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, whether through the issuance of equity securities or debt; ● our failure to successfully commercialize products we license for commercial sale; ● our failure to successfully advance the development of our programs or otherwise implement our business objectives; ● changes in our intellectual property portfolio or developments or disputes concerning the proprietary rights of our product candidates; 21 Back to Table of Contents ● our ability to successfully enter into and maintain manufacturing relationships for our products; ● progress or results of any of our clinical trials; ● progress of regulatory approval of our product candidates and compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements; ● market acceptance of our products; ● technological innovations, new commercial products or drug discovery efforts and preclinical and clinical activities by us or our competitors; ● changes in government regulations; ● issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; ● general economic conditions and other external factors; ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; ● the degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and ● our ability to meet the minimum standards required for remaining listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. A significant number of shares of our common stock are issuable pursuant to outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock, options and warrants, and we expect to sell additional shares of our common stock in the future. Sales of these shares will dilute the interests of other security holders and may depress the price of our common stock. As of March 21, 2013, we had 25,000,961 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 21, 2013, there were 331,200 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock, 65,789 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of outstanding shares of Series B-2 preferred stock, 328,947 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of outstanding shares of Series B-4 preferred stock, 14,494,575 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants with a weighted average exercise price of $1.90 per share, 3,084,399 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options with a weighted average exercise price of $1.28 per share, 2,968,427 shares of common stock reserved for future grants and awards under our equity incentive plans and 891,648 shares of common stock reserved for issuance to former Oncogenerix, Inc. stockholders, based upon our achievement of certain revenue or market capitalization milestones during the five year period ending January 2017. In addition, we may issue additional common stock and warrants from time to time to finance our operations. We may also issue additional shares in connection with additional stock options or restricted stock granted to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our equity compensation plans. The issuance of the shares of common stock underlying these instruments, or perception that issuance may occur, will have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to satisfy applicable listing standards, including maintenance of at least $2.5 million of stockholders’ equity and maintenance of a $1.00 minimum bid price, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock were delisted from NASDAQ, among other things, it could lead to a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. 22 Back to Table of Contents We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 