Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results, would likely suffer. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have a history of losses and may realize future losses Our revenues decreased approximately 1% during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Accordingly, we may not achieve, or subsequently maintain profitability if anticipated revenues do not increase in the future. We have experienced operating losses, negative cash flow from operations and net losses in most quarterly and annual periods for the past several years. As of December 31, 2009, our net operating loss carryforward was approximately $35 million and our accumulated deficit was approximately $39 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with exploration and development of new and existing properties. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve, attain, and eventually sustain profitability. If revenues do not increase, we may be unable to attain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any of these factors could cause the price of our stock to decline. We have a significant working capital deficit that makes it more difficult to obtain capital necessary for our operations and which may have an adverse effect on our future business. As of December 31, 2009, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $25 million. This deficit in working capital is primarily attributed to the reclassification of notes payable to current. If our business does not produce positive working capital in the future, our business and financial condition would most likely be materially and negatively impacted. -7- On June 22, 2007 Trans Energy finalized a financing agreement with CIT Capital USA Inc. Trans Energy gave CIT Capital USA Inc. a promissory note for all borrowings under the terms of the agreement. Principal payments are due at maturity on June 15, 2010 for all borrowings outstanding on that date. It may be necessary for us to seek refinancing, which may not be available on terms as favorable to us, or at all. Management believes that we may need to seek additional funding in the future for capital expenditures. If we cannot meet future capital requirements through realized revenues from our ongoing business, we may have to raise additional capital by borrowing or by selling equity or equity-linked securities, which would dilute the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. Also, these securities could also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Similarly, if we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, those securities may contain covenants that restrict us in terms of how we operate our business, which could also affect the value of our common stock. If we borrow more money, we will have to pay interest and may also have to agree to restrictions that limit operating flexibility. We may not be able to obtain funds needed to finance operations at all, or may be able to obtain funds only on very unattractive terms. Management may also explore other alternatives such as a joint venture with other oil and gas companies. There can be no assurances, however, that we will conclude any such transaction. There are many competitors in the oil and gas industry We encounter many competitors in the oil and gas industry including in the exploration and development of properties and the sale of oil and gas. Management expects competition to continue to intensify in the future. Many existing and potential competitors have greater financial resources, larger market share and more customers than us, which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position than we have. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, we will not be able to grow and our business will be adversely affected. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and cause our stock price to be volatile which could cause the value of your investment in our shares to decline. Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline which may cause the value of your investment to decline. Some of the factors that could affect quarterly or annual operating results or impact the market price of our common stock include: * our ability to develop properties and to market our oil and gas; * the timing and amount of, or cancellation or rescheduling of, orders for our oil and gas; * our ability to retain key management, sales and marketing and engineering personnel; * a decrease in the prices of oil and gas; and * changes in costs of exploration or marketing of oil and gas. Due to these and other factors, quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Our business could be adversely affected by any adverse economic developments in the oil and gas industry and/or the economy in general. -8- The oil and gas industry is susceptible to significant change that may influence our business development due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Some of these factors include: * varying demand for oil and gas; * fluctuations in price; * competitive factors that affect pricing; * attempts to expand into new markets; * the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations; * hiring and retention of key personnel; * changes in generally accepted accounting policies, especially those related to the oil and gas industry; and * new government legislation or regulation. Any of the above factors or a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry or with economic conditions generally, could have a negative effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. Our future success depends on retaining existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract new key employees could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, resulting in lost profitability and a slower rate of growth. Our future success depends, in part, on the ability to retain our key employees including executive officers. Also, we do not carry, nor do we anticipate obtaining, "key man" insurance on our executives. It would be difficult for us to replace any one of these individuals. In addition, as we grow we may need to hire additional key personnel. We may not be able to identify and attract high quality employees or successfully assimilate new employees into our existing management structure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected. The ability to manage and operate our business as we execute our anticipated growth will require effective planning. Significant future growth could strain our internal resources, leading to a lower quality of service and other problems that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our operations could be adversely affected, resulting in slower growth and a failure to achieve or sustain profitability. Future environmental legislation related to climate change Because of growing concern over risks related to climate change, Congress has adopted or is considering the adoption of regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Prospective legislation includes possible cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. New laws and regulations could not only make our products more expensive, but also reduce demand for hydrocarbon products. Such current and pending regulations may also increase operating costs and our compliance costs, such as for enhanced monitoring of emissions. Going concern issue Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to achieve a profitable level of operations. We may need, among other things, additional capital resources which we will seek through loans from banks or other forms of financing. -9- Risks relating to ownership of our common stock The price of our common stock is extremely volatile and investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above their purchase price, or at all. Our common stock is presently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, although there is no assurance that a viable market will continue. The price of our shares in the public market is highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially because of: * actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; * changes in or failure to meet market expectations; * conditions and trends in the oil and gas industry; and * fluctuations in stock market price and volume, which are particularly common among securities of small capitalization companies. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market value to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. If we do not generate necessary cash from our operations to finance future business, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing opportunities. The issuance of a substantial number of our common shares to individuals or in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any such issuances would dilute the equity interests of existing stockholders. We do not intend to pay dividends To date, we have never declared or paid a cash dividend on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for growth and development of business and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Possible "Penny Stock" Regulation Trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may be subject to certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, commonly referred to as the "penny stock" rule. A penny stock is generally defined to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in our stock will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. These may require a broker dealer to: * make a special suitability determination for purchasers of penny stocks; * receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase; and * deliver to a prospective purchaser of a penny stock, prior to the first transaction, a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. Consequently, penny stock rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock. Also, many prospective investors may not want to get involved with the additional administrative requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on the trading of our shares. -10- 