ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following section lists some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should carefully consider these risks in evaluating our company and business. Our business operations may be impaired if any of the following risks actually occur, and by additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know of or that we currently consider immaterial. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Common Stock If Dacogen is not commercially successful, our future revenues would be limited and our business would be harmed. Dacogen is approved in the United States and has been granted Orphan Drug exclusivity by the FDA through May 2013, with potential extension to November 2013 with additional regulatory filings by Eisai, but there is no guarantee that new patients and physicians will continue to use it for the treatment of patients. Once the Orphan Drug exclusivity period ends, Dacogen may be susceptible to generic entry by other pharmaceutical companies. This type of generic market entry typically causes sales of the trade name drug to decline. If Eisai's sales of Dacogen decrease, our royalty revenue will decrease commensurately, and we cannot be assured that Eisai will commit the resources to expand sales of Dacogen. Currently, the royalty revenue we receive from Eisai is our primary source of revenue, and we are dependent on Dacogen royalty revenue to fund our operations. Dacogen is approved for the treatment of MDS in the United States and 29 smaller countries globally, but is not yet approved in Europe or Japan. In July 2006, Eisai sublicensed Dacogen to Cilag, giving Cilag responsibility for conducting regulatory activities related to Dacogen and granting it exclusive development and commercialization rights in Europe and all territories outside North America. We received 50% of the $10 million upfront payment and, as a result of both the original agreement with Eisai and the sublicense with Cilag, may receive up to $17.5 million in future milestone payments upon achievement of global regulatory and sales targets. During 2010, Eisai completed a randomized Phase III clinical trial of Dacogen in elderly patients with AML and although the primary endpoint of the study was not met, a supplemental marketing application in the U.S is planned for the first quarter of 2011. Cilag is also planning to submit a corresponding marketing application for Dacogen in Europe in 2011. However, if Dacogen is not approved for additional indications in the U.S. or is never approved in Europe or Japan, we will receive decreasing, and ultimately no, royalty payments from commercial sales by Cilag or Eisai for these territories and our future revenues and business will be harmed. Our license agreement with Eisai may not produce the full financial benefits that we are anticipating, which could cause our business to suffer. We expect to record development and license revenue from payments made to us by Eisai upon the achievement of regulatory and commercialization milestones. However, we may never receive such payments because the milestones may never be achieved, either because of failure to secure regulatory approval of Dacogen in Europe or Japan, or due to Eisai's or Cilag's inability to expend the resources to grow or commence sales of Dacogen as prescribed by the license agreement. In addition, the license agreement provides that Eisai will pay us (i) a certain portion of revenues payable to Eisai as a result of Eisai sublicensing the rights to market, sell and/or distribute Dacogen, to the extent such revenues are in excess of the milestone payments already due to us under our agreement with Eisai, and (ii) a 20% royalty increasing to a maximum of 30% on annual worldwide net sales of Dacogen. We cannot 17 Table of Contents guarantee that we will receive these payments, and we cannot be assured that Eisai will commit the resources to expand sales of Dacogen in North America, or that Cilag will commit the resources to sell it in Europe, Japan, and elsewhere, or that either company will be successful in doing so. Because we are heavily reliant on royalties and milestone payments relating to Dacogen to fund our operations, the failure to achieve the milestones and/or receive royalty revenue from sales of Dacogen would cause our business to suffer. Our collaborative relationship with GSK may not produce the financial benefits that we are anticipating, which could cause our business to suffer. Part of our strategy is to partner with, or out-license selective products to, other pharmaceutical companies in order to mitigate the cost of developing a drug through clinical trials to commercialization. The agreement with GSK is an example of this strategy, providing for the joint development of compounds that we will discover using our CLIMB technology, followed by the option for GSK to take one or more of the jointly developed compounds and further develop, commercialize, and sell the resulting product worldwide. The agreement provides for milestone payments to be paid to us during the development process, but the majority of the payments will not occur unless and until GSK exercises its option to license one or more compounds from us. We will spend our own cash and other resources during the joint development process, and we cannot guarantee that any successful compounds will result from our joint development efforts. Further, even if we discover and develop one or more viable compounds, we cannot guarantee that GSK will exercise its option to license any such compounds from us. If GSK chooses not to exercise its license option, we may continue to develop the compounds on our own, but the post-option exercise developmental and sales milestones described in the agreement, which we have estimated to be approximately $300 million, plus additional royalty revenues, will never be realized. If our joint development program with GSK is not successful, and if we cannot earn revenue from collaborative arrangements such as this agreement, our future revenues and business will be harmed. We have a history of operating losses and we may incur losses for the foreseeable future. Since inception, we have funded our research and development activities primarily from private placements and public offerings of our securities, milestone and other payments from collaborators, sales of our products, royalty revenue, and product revenues primarily from sales of Nipent. The North American rights to Nipent were sold in August 2006 and we sold the remaining worldwide rights in April 2007. Our substantial research and development expenditures and limited revenues have resulted in significant net losses. We have incurred cumulative losses of $340.3 million from inception through December 31, 2010, and we have not generated sufficient revenues to support our business during that time. We expect to be close to break-even or have modest operating income over the next few years and, although we were profitable in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we may never achieve sustained profitability. Whether we achieve sustained profitability depends primarily on the following factors: •successful sales of Dacogen in North America by Eisai; •obtaining regulatory approval in Europe and Asia and the successful commercialization of Dacogen outside of North America by Cilag; •limiting or preventing delays in production of Dacogen; •the success of our joint development program with GSK and whether GSK exercises its option to further develop and commercialize any of the compounds resulting from the joint development effort; 18 Table of Contents •our ability to discover and develop additional novel therapeutics that might advance through our internal clinical development infrastructure; •our research and development efforts, including the timing and costs of clinical trials; •our competition's ability to develop and bring to market competing products; •our ability to control costs and expenses associated with the discovery, development, and manufacturing of our novel compounds, as well as general and administrative costs related to conducting our business; and •costs and expenses associated with entering into and performing under licensing, joint development, and other collaborative agreements. Our products and product candidates, even if successfully developed and approved, may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to achieve or sustain profitability. We will require additional funding to expand our product pipeline and commercialize new drugs, and if we are unable to raise the necessary capital or to do so on acceptable terms, our planned expansion and continued chances of survival could be harmed. We will continue to spend substantial resources on expanding our product pipeline, developing future products, and conducting research and development, including clinical trials for our product candidates. Based on our currently forecasted product development activities, we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate to fund operations and capital expenditures at least through 2012. However, if we experience unanticipated cash requirements during this period, we could require additional funds much sooner. In February 2009 we filed a $100 million shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, which gives us the flexibility to raise funds through the sale of a variety of securities. We may raise money by the sale of our equity securities or debt, or the exercise of outstanding stock options by the holders of such options. However, given uncertain market conditions and the volatility of our stock price, we may not be able to sell our securities in public offerings or private placements at prices and/or on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Also, the dilutive effect of additional financings could adversely affect our per share results. We may also choose to obtain funding through licensing and other contractual agreements. For example, we licensed the worldwide rights to the development, commercialization and distribution of Dacogen to Eisai. Such arrangements may require us to relinquish our rights to our technologies, products or marketing territories, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain adequate funding in a timely manner, or at all, we will be forced to scale back our product development activities, or be forced to cease our operations. Our equity investment in AVI BioPharma Inc. ("AVI") exposes us to equity price risk and any impairment charge would affect our results of operations. Our investments in marketable securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive gain or loss in stockholders' equity. However, we are exposed to equity price risk on our equity investment in AVI. The public trading prices of the AVI shares have fluctuated significantly since we purchased them and could continue to do so. If the public trading prices of these shares trade below their adjusted cost basis in future periods, we may incur additional impairment charges relating to this investment, which in turn will affect our results of operations. Currently we own 2.4 million shares of AVI and recorded an other-than-temporary decline in value of $3.1 million related to this investment during the year ended December 31, 2008. We evaluate investments with unrealized losses to determine if the losses are other than temporary. In making these determinations, we consider the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, the 19 Table of Contents magnitude of the losses compared to the investments' cost, the length of time the investments have been in an unrealized loss position, and our ability and intent to hold the investments for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a recovery of fair value. It is possible that we may record another other than temporary decline in value related to AVI in the future. Product Development and Regulatory Risks Our product candidates will require significant additional development. Many of our product candidates are in the development, rather than the clinical trial stage. However, we must significantly develop all of our product candidates before we can market them, or before they will become desirable for partnering or licensing. Although we believe that our preclinical and pilot clinical studies support further development of these product candidates, the results we have obtained to date do not necessarily indicate what the results of further testing would be, including controlled human clinical testing. All of the product candidates that we are currently developing will require extensive clinical testing before we can submit any regulatory application for their commercial use. Our product development efforts may ultimately fail. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. These risks include the following: •some of our product candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective, or may fail to receive the necessary regulatory clearances in a timely manner, if at all; •even if safe and effective, our product candidates may be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or may be uneconomical to market; •the proprietary rights of third parties may preclude us from marketing such products; and •third parties may market more effective or less costly products for treatment of the same diseases. As a result, we cannot be certain that any of our products will be successfully developed, receive required governmental approvals on a timely basis, become commercially viable or achieve market acceptance. Before we can seek regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we must complete clinical trials, which are expensive and have uncertain outcomes. All of our product candidates will require the commitment of substantial resources and regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through non-clinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. We have a portfolio of cancer drugs in various stages of development. We are currently conducting clinical trials on our products amuvatinib and SGI-110. We also expect to commence other new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time consuming and expensive process and the results are inherently uncertain. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense for, and we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a significant amount of time to, non-clinical testing and clinical trials. However, regulatory authorities may not permit us to undertake any additional clinical trials for our product candidates. If we are unable to complete our clinical trials, our business will be severely harmed and the price of our stock will likely decline. 20 Table of Contents We also have ongoing research and non-clinical projects that may lead to product candidates, but we have not begun clinical trials for these projects. If we do not successfully complete our non-clinical trials, we might not be able to commence clinical trials as planned. Our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated, which would prevent us from seeking necessary regulatory approvals. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of a clinical trial varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The length of time and complexity of these studies make statistical analysis difficult and regulatory approval unpredictable. The commencement and rate of completion of our clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: •ineffectiveness of the study compound, or perceptions by physicians that the compound is not effective for a particular indication; •inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in clinical trials; •inability to obtain FDA approval of our clinical trial protocols; •slower than expected rate of patient recruitment; •inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; •difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; •unforeseen safety issues; •lack of efficacy demonstrated during the clinical trials; or •governmental or regulatory delays. If we are unable to achieve a satisfactory rate of completion of our clinical trials, our business will be significantly harmed. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if they are not conducted in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and are subject to continuous oversight by these authorities, and institutional review boards and ethical committees. We outsource certain aspects of our research and development activities to contract research organizations ("CROs"). We have agreements with these CROs for certain of our clinical programs. We and our CROs are required to comply with GCP regulations and guidelines for all of our products in clinical development. GCPs are enforced through periodic inspections of study sponsors, principal investigators, and study sites. If our CROs or we fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable and regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional studies before approving our applications. Our non-clinical safety studies must be conducted according to the principles of GLP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under current GMPs, and may require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical studies, which would delay the regulatory approval process. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if later trial results fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or if the results are negative or inconclusive. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time if we or the FDA believe the patients participating in our studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if we or the FDA find 21 Table of Contents deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to terminate or repeat a clinical trial. In 2010, we terminated clinical trials for SGI-1776 due to safety concerns. We may encounter other problems and failures in our studies that would cause us or the FDA to delay or suspend the studies. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results during a clinical trial could cause us to terminate or repeat a clinical trial. The potential failures would delay development of our product candidates, hinder our ability to conduct related non-clinical testing and clinical trials and further delay the commencement of the regulatory approval process. Further, the failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials would delay our product development and the regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical industry. Finally, if we are required to conduct other clinical trials for the product candidates, the additional trials would require substantial funding and time, and we may be unable to obtain funding to conduct such clinical trials. Our failure to obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates in foreign countries and delays caused by government regulation would adversely affect our anticipated revenues. Sales of our products in foreign jurisdictions will be subject to separate regulatory requirements and marketing approvals. Approval in the United States, or in any one foreign jurisdiction, does not ensure approval in any other jurisdiction. The process of obtaining foreign approvals may result in significant delays, difficulties and expenses for us, and may require additional clinical trials. Although many of the regulations applicable to our products in these foreign countries are similar to those promulgated by the FDA, many of these requirements also vary widely from country to country, which could delay the introduction of our products in those countries. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain required approvals would impair our ability to commercialize our products in foreign markets. Even if regulatory approval of our products is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of a product, including withdrawal of that product from the market. Further, governmental approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. For example, despite receipt of governmental approval, the facilities of our third-party manufacturers are still subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and must continue to comply with GMPs and other regulations. These regulations govern all areas of production, record keeping, personnel and quality control. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with any of the manufacturing regulations, we may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If we are unable to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our business may be harmed. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We currently maintain a supply of biohazardous materials at some of our facilities. We believe our safety procedures for these materials comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we carry insurance coverage we believe is adequate for the size of our business. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, which could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. 22 Table of Contents We currently outsource certain of our research and development programs involving the controlled use of biohazardous materials. We believe our collaborators have in place safety procedures for these materials that comply with governmental standards. Nevertheless, if an accident does occur, our research and product development will be negatively affected. Additional Risks Associated with Our Business If the third-party manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or fail to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the delivery of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products. Because we have no manufacturing facilities, we rely on third parties for manufacturing activities related to all of our product candidates. As we develop new products, we must establish and maintain relationships with manufacturers to produce and package sufficient supplies of our finished pharmaceutical products. Reliance on third party manufacturing presents the following risks: •delays in scale-up to quantities needed for multiple clinical trials, or failure to (a) manufacture such quantities to our specifications or (b) deliver such quantities on the dates we require, which could cause delay or suspension of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; •potential relinquishment or sharing of intellectual property rights to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products; and •unannounced ongoing inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies for compliance with GMPs, regulations and foreign standards, and failure to comply with any of these regulations and standards may subject us to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these factors could delay clinical trials or commercialization of our product candidates under development, and entail higher costs. Our business may be harmed if the manufacture of our products is interrupted or discontinued. We may be unable to maintain our relationships with our third-party manufacturers. If we need to replace or seek new manufacturing arrangements, we may have difficulty locating and entering into arrangements with qualified contract manufacturers on acceptable terms, if at all. We are aware of only a limited number of companies on a worldwide basis who operate manufacturing facilities in which our products can be manufactured to our specifications and in compliance with GMPs. It could take several months, or significantly longer, for a new contract manufacturing facility to obtain FDA approval and to develop substantially equivalent processes for the production of our product candidates. We may not be able to contract with any of these companies on acceptable terms, if at all. If our suppliers cannot provide the components we require, our future product sales and revenue could be harmed. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with numerous components used in our products under development. Relying on third-party suppliers makes us vulnerable to component failures and interruptions in supply, either of which could impair our ability to conduct clinical trials on a timely basis. Using third-party suppliers makes it difficult and sometimes impossible for us to maintain quality control, manage inventory and production schedules and control production costs. Vendor lead times to supply us with ordered components vary significantly and can exceed six months or more. Both now and as we expand our need for manufacturing capacity, we cannot be sure that our suppliers will furnish us with required components when we need them. These factors could make it difficult for us 23 Table of Contents to effectively and efficiently manufacture our products, and could adversely impact our clinical trials, product development and future sales of our products. Some suppliers may be our only source for a particular component, which would make us vulnerable to cost increases and supply interruptions. We generally rely on one manufacturer for each product. Vendors may decide to limit or eliminate sales of certain products to the medical industry due to product liability or other concerns. In the event one of our sole source suppliers decides not to manufacture the component, goes out of business, or decides to cut off our supply, we may be unable to locate replacement supply sources, or the sources that we may locate may not provide us with similar reliability or pricing and our business could suffer. If we cannot obtain a necessary component, we may need to find, test and obtain regulatory approval for a replacement component, produce the component or redesign the related product, which would cause significant delay and could increase our manufacturing costs. Any of these events could adversely impact our future sales and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain and successfully establish new collaborative and licensing arrangements with third parties, our product development and business will be harmed. Our business model is based on establishing collaborative relationships with other parties both to license compounds upon which our products and technologies are based and to manufacture our products or our collaborators' products. It is critical that we gain access to compounds and technologies to license for further development. Due to the expense of the drug approval process we must have relationships with established pharmaceutical companies to offset some of our development costs in exchange for a combination of development, marketing and distribution rights. For example, in our collaborative relationship with GSK, we expect to offset the costs of further development of the drugs we jointly develop with GSK, if and when GSK exercises its option to license such jointly developed drugs. From time to time we enter into discussions with various companies regarding the establishment of new collaborations. If we are not successful in establishing new partners for our product candidates, we may not be able to pursue further development of such product candidates and/or may have to reduce or cease our current development programs, which would materially harm our business. Even if we are successful in establishing new collaborations, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including: •our ability to negotiate acceptable collaborative arrangements; •the collaboration making us less attractive to potential acquirers; •freedom of our collaborative partners to pursue alternative technologies either on their own or with others, including our competitors, for the diseases targeted by our programs and products; •the potential failure of our partners to fulfill their contractual obligations or their decision to terminate our relationships, in which event we may be required to seek other partners, or expend substantial resources to pursue these activities independently; and •our ability to manage, interact and coordinate our timelines and objectives with our collaborative partners may not be successful. In addition, our collaborators may undergo business combinations, which could have the effect of making the collaboration with us less attractive to them for a number of reasons. For example, if an existing collaborator purchases a company that is one of our competitors, that company may be less willing to continue its collaboration with us. A company that has a strategy of purchasing companies with attractive technologies might have less incentive to enter into a collaboration agreement with us. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology or products developed with any current or future collaborator. Lengthy negotiations with potential collaborators or disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in time consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. 24 Table of Contents Our collaborative relationships with third parties could cause us to expend significant funds on development costs with no assurance of financial return. From time to time we enter into collaborative relationships with third parties to co-develop and market products, such as our relationship with GSK. These relationships require substantial financial commitments from us, and at the same time the product developments are subject to the same regulatory requirements, risks and uncertainties associated with the development of our other product candidates. The compounds that are the subject of these collaborative agreements may prove to be ineffective, may fail to receive regulatory approvals, may be unprotectable by patents or other intellectual property rights, or may not be otherwise commercially viable. If these collaborative relationships are not successful, our product developments will be adversely affected, and our investments and efforts devoted to the product developments will be wasted. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights will be critically important to the success of our business, and we may not be able to protect these rights in the United States or abroad. The success of our operations depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and enforce our proprietary rights against accused infringers. We actively pursue a policy of seeking patent protection when applicable for our proprietary products and technologies, whether they are developed in-house or acquired from third parties. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing United States and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. To date, we have ownership of or acquired licenses to numerous patents covering various aspects of our proprietary drugs and technologies. In addition, we are prosecuting a number of patent applications for new drug candidates that we are actively developing at this time. We also have patents, licenses to patents, and pending patent applications in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada, China and Israel among other countries. Limitations on patent protection, and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter, may limit the protection we have on patents issued or licensed to us in these countries. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws in the United States. In determining whether or not to seek patent protection or to license any patent in a foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential and profitability, the scope of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction and its enforceability, and the nature of terms with any potential licensees. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary drugs and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and therefore we cannot predict with certainty whether our patents will be enforced effectively. Competitors may have filed applications for, or been issued patents on, products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests which may have been issued to others. In addition, third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent any of our patents. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide adequate protection against competitors, if at all. Our pending patent applications and those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued with adequate claim scope, if at all. In addition to pursuing patent protection in appropriate instances, we also rely on trade secret protection or regulatory marketing exclusivity for unpatented proprietary technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may become known or 25 Table of Contents may be independently discovered by others. Furthermore, regulatory marketing exclusivity is for a limited time period, which may not be an adequate period for our business interests. In the pharmaceutical industry there has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Claims may be brought against us in the future based on patents held by others. These persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If a lawsuit against us is successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected product. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in a lawsuit filed against us or that we could obtain any licenses required under any patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Our proprietary products are dependent upon compliance with other licenses and agreements. These licenses and agreements require us to make royalty and other payments, reasonably exploit the underlying technology of the applicable patents, and comply with regulatory filings. If we fail to comply with these licenses and agreements, we could lose the underlying rights to one or more of these potential products, which would adversely affect our product development and harm our business. If we fail to compete effectively against other pharmaceutical companies, our business will suffer. The pharmaceutical industry in general and the oncology sector in particular is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. There are many companies, both public and private, including well-known pharmaceutical companies that are engaged in the discovery and development of products for some of the applications that we are pursuing. Some of our competitors and probable competitors include ArQule, Array BioPharma, Astex Tx, Crystal Genomics, Exelixis, Infinity, Plexxikon, Vertex, Sanofi-Aventis, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene, Eli Lilly & Co., GSK, Novartis AG, Pfizer, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development, and manufacturing resources than we do and may represent substantial long-term competition for us. Some of our competitors have received regulatory approval for products or are developing or testing product candidates that compete directly with our product candidates. For example, amuvatinib faces competition from a multitude of other investigational drugs which are multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors and inhibitors of the DNA repair pathway. We also expect that there will be other inhibitors of PIM kinases that will emerge as competition for investigational drugs progressing through our discovery pipeline. In addition, Dacogen faces competition from 5-aza-cytidine and other drugs in development to treat MDS. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their customers and partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering products, undertaking non-clinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or foreign marketing approval or commercializing products before we do. If we elect to commence commercial product sales of our product candidates, we could be at a disadvantage relative to many companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, in areas that we may have limited or no experience. Factors affecting competition in the pharmaceutical industry vary depending on the extent to which competitors are able to achieve an advantage based on superior differentiation of their products, greater institutional knowledge, or depth of resources. If we are able to establish and maintain a competitive advantage based on the ability of CLIMB to discover new drug candidates more quickly and against targets not accessible by many competitors, our advantage will likely depend primarily on 26 Table of Contents the ability of our CLIMB technology to make accurate predictions about the effectiveness and safety of our drug candidates as well as our ability to effectively and rapidly develop investigational drugs. Extensive research and development efforts and rapid technological progress characterize the industry in which we compete. Although we believe that our proprietary drug discovery capabilities afford us a competitive advantage relative to other discovery and development companies competing in oncology, we expect competitive intensity in this pharmaceutical segment to continue and will increase over time. Discoveries by others may render CLIMB and our current and potential products noncompetitive. Our competitive position also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel at all our geographic locations, develop effective proprietary products, implement development plans, obtain patent protection and secure adequate capital resources. The pharmaceutical industry in general and the oncology sector in particular is subject to significant and rapid technological change. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. Additionally, our products that are under patent protection face intense competition from competitors' proprietary products. This competition may increase as new products enter the market. A number of our competitors have substantially more capital, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, human and other resources and experience than we have. As a result, our competitors may: •develop products that are more effective or less costly than any of our current or future products or that render our products obsolete; •produce and market their products more successfully than we do; •establish superior proprietary positions; or •obtain FDA or foreign regulatory approval for labeling claims that are more favorable than those for our products. We will also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products after patents on our proprietary products expire. Loss of patent protection typically leads to a rapid decline in sales for that product and could affect our future results. As new products enter the market, our products may become obsolete or our competitors' products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than our products. Technological advances, competitive forces and loss of intellectual property protection rights for our products may render our products obsolete. We may be subject to product liability lawsuits and our insurance may be inadequate to cover damages. Clinical trials and commercial use of our current and potential products may expose us to liability claims from the use or sale of these products. Consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies and others selling such products might make claims of this kind. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our products and clinical trials, under which the coverage limits are $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. We do not know whether this coverage will be adequate to protect us in the event of a claim. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If third parties bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required for the expansion of our activities, our business will suffer. Our success is dependent on key personnel, including members of our senior management and scientific staff at all our geographic locations. If any of our executive officers decides to leave and we cannot locate a qualified replacement in time to allow a smooth transition, our business may be adversely affected. To successfully expand our operations, we will need to attract and retain additional highly skilled individuals, particularly in the areas of clinical administration, non-clinical and development research, manufacturing and finance. We compete with other companies for the services of existing and potential employees, however to the extent these employees favor larger, more established employers, we may be at a disadvantage. Earthquake or other natural or man-made disasters and business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, floods, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. In addition, our operations are susceptible to disruption as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes. So far we have never experienced any significant disruption of our operations as a result of earthquakes, other natural disasters, or any man-made disasters. Although we have a contingency recovery plan, any significant business interruption could cause delays in our drug development and future sales and harm our business. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or stockholders from attempting to replace our management. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: •authorization of the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of our preferred stock; •elimination of cumulative voting; and •elimination of stockholder action by written consent. Our bylaws establish procedures, including notice procedures, with regard to the nomination, other than by or at the direction of our board of directors, of candidates for election as directors or for stockholder proposals to be submitted at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover provision. In general, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prevents a stockholder owning 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock from engaging in business combinations with a Delaware corporation for three years following the date the stockholder acquired 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock. This restriction is subject to exceptions, including the approval of the board of directors and of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. We believe that the benefits of increased protection of our potential ability to negotiate with the proponents of unfriendly or unsolicited proposals to acquire or restructure us outweigh the disadvantages of discouraging those proposals because, among other things, negotiation of those proposals could result in an improvement of their terms. Nevertheless, these provisions are expected to discourage different types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of our company to first negotiate with us, and may have the effect of preventing or discouraging third parties or stockholders from attempting to replace our management. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 