Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our stock price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be extremely volatile. Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock, including: • our inability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, whether through the issuance of equity securities or debt; • changes in our intellectual property portfolio or developments or disputes concerning the proprietary rights of our product candidates; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • the degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and • our ability to meet the minimum standards required for remaining listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our business to date and our future viability. We are in the early stage of operations and development and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our current business and prospects. In addition, our operations and development are subject to all of the risks inherent in the growth of an early stage company. We will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we face. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug development technology and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future. We are unable to predict whether our research and development activities will result in any commercially viable products or procedures. The product candidates we have in-licensed have had only limited research in the fields of use that we are presently intending to commercialize. We will have to undertake extensive research and testing to determine the safety and effectiveness of their proposed uses. All of our product candidates will require testing and regulatory clearances. Accordingly, the products we are developing are not presently commercially ready for sale, nor may they ever ready for sale. The successful development of any products is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products or therapeutic procedures based on innovative technologies. These risks include the possibilities that any or all of these proposed products or procedures are found to be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances; that the proposed products or procedures are uneconomical to market or do not achieve broad market acceptance; that third parties hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing them; or third parties market a superior or equivalent product. We are unable to predict 10 Table of Contents whether our research and development activities will result in any commercially viable products or procedures. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearances can be obtained, the time frames for commercialization of any products or procedures are long and uncertain. We expect to continue to incur losses. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our losses are likely to be primarily attributable to personnel costs, working capital costs, research and development costs, brand development costs and marketing and promotion costs. We may never achieve sustained profitability. Our business depends on collaborative arrangements. Our strategy requires us to enter into licenses or other alliances, and also to make dispositions of products that have reached a certain level of clinical development. We may be unable to identify profitable applications for our product candidates or demonstrate the potential benefits and are unable to predict whether our product candidates will be accepted. We may not be able to continue licensing or other partnering arrangements, and any such arrangements, even if completed successfully, may not be on terms favorable to us, may not perform as expected, may result in unexpected liabilities and may never contribute significant revenues or cash flow. We depend to a significant extent on the expertise and dedication of sufficient resources by our licensors, licensees, research and development, or corporate partners to develop and commercialize products. Each individual licensor, licensee or corporate partner will control the amount and timing of resources devoted by it to these activities. Moreover, the success of any such licenses or other alliance depends in part upon such partners’ own competitive, marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative products and technologies being developed or marketed by such partners. Corporate partners may pursue alternative technologies or develop products that are competitive with our products. If any such partners are unsuccessful in developing or commercializing our product candidates, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Disputes may arise between us and one or more of our collaborative partners regarding their respective rights and obligations under collaborative arrangements. In such an event, we may be required to initiate or defend expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings or to seek and attempt to reach agreement with another collaborative partner. We may not be able to resolve successfully a dispute with a collaborative partner or to enter into a satisfactory arrangement with a replacement collaborative partner. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. We currently have only eight full-time employees and two part-time employees. The loss of members of managerial, sales or scientific staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain management, particularly the President and Chief Operating Officer, and to attract additional key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and other research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. 11 Table of Contents Competition from other pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and other research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we have and have substantially greater experience in undertaking pre-clinical and clinical testing of products. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities and other research institutions. There can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to obtain patent protection on technologies and products and preserve trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or patents we are able to license will afford any competitive advantages or will not be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before any of our potential products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire, or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. While we take steps to protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, there can be no assurance that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, within the drug development industry, established companies have actively pursued such infringements, and have initiated such claims and litigation, which has made the entry of competitive products more difficult. We may experience such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. Court-ordered injunctions may prevent us from bringing new products to market, and the outcome of litigation and any resulting loss of revenues and expenses of litigation may substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. We may be unable to manage growth effectively. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that a period of significant expansion will be required to address potential growth to handle licensing and research and development activities. This 12 Table of Contents expansion will place a significant strain on its management, operational and financial resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we must both improve our existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and implement new systems, procedures and controls. We must also expand our finance, administrative and operations staff. Our current personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequately support our future operations. Our management may be unable to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage necessary personnel or identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. We are subject to the following factors that may negatively affect our operating results: • the announcement or introduction of new services or products by our competitors; • our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; • our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a timely and cost effective manner; • technical or regulatory difficulties, including difficulties and delays associated with clinical development of drug products; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • regulation by federal, state or local governments and agencies, including the FDA; and • general economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the pharmaceutical industry. As a result of our limited operating history with respect to our current business and the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues or earnings accurately. We have based our current and future expense levels largely on our investment plans and estimates of future events although certain of our expense levels are, to a large extent, fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues relative to our planned expenditures would have an immediate adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, as a strategic response to changes in our competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the foregoing factors, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast and may be volatile, which could cause the trading price for our common stock to be volatile. We need to continue to develop our financial and reporting processes, procedures and controls to support our anticipated growth. To comply with our public reporting requirements and manage the anticipated growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve existing or implement new operational and financial systems, processes and procedures, and to expand, train and manage our employee base. 13 Table of Contents Our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the SEC, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations, or if compliance can be achieved. Government regulation of our business is extensive and drug approvals are uncertain, expensive and time-consuming. Our research, development, pre-clinical and clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of most of our intended products are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and abroad. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals for drug and biological products, including required pre-clinical and clinical testing, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. There can be no assurance that, even after such time and expenditures, the combined company will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of any products. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown products or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible criminal sanctions. Our business will always be strictly regulated by the federal and other governments, and there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with all applicable regulation. Clinical testing, manufacture, promotion and sale of our proposed products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA, and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations or policies could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals or clearances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining such regulatory approvals. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any enforcement action by regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to authorize the marketing of new products and criminal prosecution. Even if our proposed products are approved for market, we will be subject to continuing regulation. We will continuously be subject to routine inspection by the FDA and will have to comply with the host of regulatory requirements that usually apply to pharmaceutical products marketed in the U.S. including labeling regulations, GMP requirements, adverse drug experience regulation and the FDA’s regulations 14 Table of Contents regarding promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the testing or use of our drug candidates harms people, we could face costly and damaging product liability claims far in excess of our liability coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products, such as undesirable side effects or injury during clinical trials. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of drugs that we or our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these drugs by us or our potential collaborators may expose us to liability risks relating to these drugs. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. We will need additional financing. We will need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We intend to finance our business, in part, through the private placement and public offering of equity and debt securities. We have historically financed our operations through working capital and from equity investments. In the event that we issue any additional equity securities, investors’ interests in the company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional equity securities, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control. When we need additional financing, we cannot provide assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: • execute our growth plan; • take advantage of future opportunities, including synergistic acquisitions; • respond to customers and competition; or • remain in operation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 Table of Contents 