ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We need to raise a significant amount of additional capital to meet our current and future business requirements and such capital raising may be costly or difficult to obtain and could dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests. 9 We need to raise $5 million of additional financing in order to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve (12) months and to fully implement our business plan during the next twelve months. The funds would be used to increase manufacturing of our products, expand our research and development efforts, and attract a larger talented sales force. We intend to raise the financing from the sale of common stock in one or more private placements or public offerings and/or from bank financing. We do not have any firm commitments or identified sources of additional capital from third parties or from our officers, directors or shareholders. Although our officers and directors or their affiliates have in the past facilitated capital for us, or provided us with capital, they are not legally bound to do so. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us, or that, if available, it will be on terms satisfactory to us. Any additional financing may involve dilution to our shareholders. If we are unable to raise additional financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, we would not be able to fully implement our business plan which would have a materially adverse effect our business and financial position and could cause us to delay, curtail, scale back or forgo some or all of our operations or we could cease to exist. We have a history of operating and net losses which we anticipate will continue. We have a history of losses from operations. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future, we will continue to experience losses from operations. We had a net loss from continuing operations of $9,414,507 during fiscal 2009 and a net loss from continuing operations of $4,598,076 during fiscal 2008. We anticipate that our net loss will increase for fiscal 2010. Our independent auditors have issued a report questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. This report may impair our ability to raise additional financing and adversely affect the price of our common stock. The report of our independent auditors contained in our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes a paragraph that explains that we have incurred substantial losses. This report raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Reports of independent auditors questioning a company’s ability to continue as a going concern are generally viewed unfavorably by analysts and investors. This report may make it difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing necessary to continue the development of our airships. We urge potential investors to review this report before making a decision to invest in the Company. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting structure which until remedied, may cause errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas to compete more effectively with us. Our proprietary rights are one of the keys to our performance and ability to remain competitive. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality agreements and procedures, non-compete agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, other proprietary rights and our brand. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs to us and substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use it to enhance their products. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and financial condition, and the value of our brand name and other intangible assets. 10 Risk Related To Ownership of Our Common Stock There is currently a small market for our common stock, and we expect that any market that does develop will be illiquid and extremely volatile. As of March 31, 2010, we had approximately twenty two thousand (22,000) shareholders of record, and we had been subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for at least ninety (90) days. There were shares of our common stock that had been held by non-affiliates for a minimum of one year which could be freely resold under Rule 144, and shares of our common stock that had been held by such persons for a minimum of six months which could be resold under Rule 144 subject to public information requirements for reporting issuers. There were also shares of our common stock that had been held by affiliates for a minimum of six months which could be resold under Rule 144 subject to the volume limitations, manner of sale provisions, public information requirements for reporting issuers and notice requirements. The market for our common stock is illiquid and subject to wide fluctuations in response to several factors, including, but not limited to: · limited numbers of buyers and sellers in the market; · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · our ability or inability to generate new revenues; · increased competition; and Furthermore, our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance which include stock market fluctuations, general economic, political and overall global market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations. Any and all of these factors, while unrelated directly to us, may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. We have authorized preferred stock which can be designated by our board of directors without shareholder approval. We have authorized 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each of which shall have distinctive designation or title as shall be determined by our board of directors prior to the issuance of any shares thereof. The preferred stock shall have such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as adopted by our board of directors. Because our board of directors is able to designate the powers and preferences of the preferred stock without the vote of the holders of our common stock, the holders of our common stock will have no control over what designations and preferences our preferred stock will have. As a result of this, our board of directors could designate one or more series of preferred stock with superior rights to the rights of the holders of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid, and do not anticipate declaring or paying in the foreseeable future, any cash dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon, among other things, our future earnings, operating and financial condition, our capital requirements, general business conditions and other pertinent factors, and is subject to the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that any dividends will ever be paid on our common stock. Investors may face significant restrictions on the resale of our common stock due to federal regulations of penny stock. Our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15(g)9, promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act as long as the price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share. Under such rule, broker-dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock. Generally, the SEC defines a penny stock as any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The required penny stock disclosures include the delivery, prior to any transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Such requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of the securities and the ability of purchasers to sell their securities in the secondary market. In addition, various state securities laws impose restrictions on transferring penny stocks. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, the Company is not required to include the disclosure in this Item 1B. ITEM 