ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections. These forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made elsewhere by management from time to time are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which are difficult to predict. The risks and uncertainties described below or incorporated herein by reference are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies. These risks should be considered carefully along with the other information contained or incorporated herein by reference. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We need to raise a significant amount of additional capital to continue our operations and such capital may be costly and difficult to obtain. We need to raise significant additional capital in order to meet our cash requirements to fully implement our business plan and continue our operations during the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2010, we only had $29,491 of cash and cash equivalents, we had negative working capital of $19,363,277 and we had a net loss of $9,796,010. We expect to use the funds raised, if any, to expand and accelerate our research and development efforts, increase our manufacturing facilities, hire additional sales and other personnel, implement additional corporate governance measures, attract independent board members and for other operating activities. We will, as we deem necessary and prudent, continue to seek to raise additional capital through various financing alternatives, including the private or public sale of equity or debt securities, bank financing or corporate partnering arrangements. We currently have a funding commitment letter for $1.5 million from a third party, but it is subject to a number of conditions and we cannot assure you that this funding will occur. We do not have any other firm commitments for additional capital from third parties or from our officers, directors or shareholders. Although our officers and directors or their affiliates have in the past provided us with or helped us obtain capital, they are not legally bound to do so. We may not be able to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. In order to attract new investors and raise additional capital, we may be forced to provide rights and preferences to new investors that are not available to current stockholders and that may be adverse to existing investors. If we do not receive adequate additional financing on terms satisfactory to us on a timely basis, or at all, we would not be able to meet our cash payment obligations or fully implement our business plan. We would likely also have to delay, curtail, scale back or terminate some or all of our operations that could hurt our future performance, prematurely sell some or all of our assets on undesirable terms, merge with or be acquired by another company on unsatisfactory terms, or possibly shut down our operations. We may not have enough authorized shares of Common Stock available to continue to fund our operations. Based on our current capitalization, Sanswire has only approximately 4,147,583 shares of Common Stock available to raise additional capital to finance its operations; pay outstanding debts, judgments, settlements and other obligations; recruit, retain and motivate its employees, directors, consultants and advisers; satisfy any future obligations triggered by a dilutive issuance; or for any other future issuance. Virtually the entire Company’s authorized 500,000,000 shares of Common Stock is outstanding or specifically reserved for other existing obligations. In addition to selling either Common Stock or securities convertible into Common Stock as a way to fund Sanswire’s operations, the Company has historically issued shares of its Common Stock to satisfy debt and other obligations, as well as to compensate its employees and directors so as to preserve available cash for use in its research and development efforts. Furthermore, the Company would not be able to afford to make payment of all of these obligations in cash unless it is able to raise additional funds. Without stockholder approval of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be voted on at the Company’s upcoming Annual Meeting of Stockholders which increases Sanswire’s authorized Common Stock, the Company believes it would be virtually impossible for Sanswire to raise sufficient additional cash to cover the cash payments that would be required to satisfy its existing obligations and to fund its development and corporate operations. If the Company does not receive an adequate amount of additional financing in the future or such financing does not occur on a timely basis, Sanswire will be required to curtail its expenses by reducing research and development efforts or by taking other steps that could hurt its future performance, including but not limited to, the premature sale of some or all of the Company’s assets or product lines on undesirable terms, merger with or acquisition by another company on unsatisfactory terms or the cessation of the Company’s operations. 11 We have a history of operating losses that we anticipate will continue for the foreseeable future. We have a history of losses from operations and we anticipate that for the foreseeable future, we will continue to experience losses from operations. Those losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development efforts, and from general and administrative costs associated with our business. We had a net loss from continuing operations of $9,786,228 during 2010 and a net loss from continuing operations of $9,414,507 during 2009. Our accumulated deficit through December 31, 2010 was $144,513,099. We expect to continue to incur net losses from operations for the next several quarters if not for all of 2011 as we continue to develop and seek to commercialize our products. Our independent auditors have issued a report stating that there is substantial doubt relating to our ability to continue as a going concern, which may impair our ability to raise additional financing. The report of our independent auditors contained in our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 explains that we have incurred substantial operating losses and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Analysts and investors view reports of independent auditors questioning a company’s ability to continue as a going concern unfavorably. This report may make it difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing necessary to continue our business operations and the development of our airships. Potential investors should review this report before making a decision to invest in the Company. We have incurred substantial indebtedness and may be unable to service our debt. Our indebtedness at December 31, 2010 was $18,069,685. A portion of such indebtedness reflects judicial judgments against us that could result in liens being placed on our bank accounts or assets. Pursuant to a Settlement Agreement entered into on March 22, 2011, $2,474,753 of this indebtedness was discharged. We are reviewing our ability to further reduce this debt level due to the age and/or settlement of certain payables but we may not be able to do so. This level of indebtedness could, among other things: · make it difficult for us to make payments on this debt and other obligations; · make it difficult for us to obtain future financing; · require us to redirect significant amounts of cash from operations to servicing the debt; · require us to take measures such as the reduction in scale of our operations that might hurt our future performance in order to satisfy our debt obligations; and · make us more vulnerable to bankruptcy or an unwanted acquisition on terms unsatisfactory to us. We rely exclusively on our technical partner, Eastcor Engineering, for the development and commercialization of our products. We currently rely exclusively on our technical partner, Eastcor Engineering, for the development and commercialization of our airships. We currently have no technical personnel as employees of the Company. While we believe the relationship with Eastcor to be very strong, there is no assurance that it will always remain so. If this relationship were to break down or terminate or if we were to lose the services of Eastcor, since we do not have an alternative technical partner, it would cause a significant delay in our ability to continue to develop, manufacture and sell our airships, postpone commercial revenue to us and increase the costs related to such development and commercialization. Pursuant to a Settlement Agreement, we recently terminated all the existing agreements we had with TAO Technologies, our former technology partner, and are in the process of dissolving the joint venture we had with TAO. We are currently discussing with TAO a potential future relationship, but there can be no assurance that a future relationship will exist or what the terms of such a relationship could be. 12 Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process. The development of LTA UAVs is a costly, complex and time-consuming process, and the investment in product development often involves a long wait until a return, if any, is achieved on such investment. We make and will continue to make significant investments in research and development relating to our airships. Investments in new technology and processes are inherently speculative. We have experienced numerous setbacks and delays in our research and development efforts and may encounter further obstacles in the course of the development of additional technologies and products. We may not be able to overcome these obstacles or may have to expend significant additional funds and time. Technical obstacles and challenges we encounter in our research and development process may result in delays in or abandonment of product commercialization, may substantially increase the costs of development, and may negatively affect our results of operations. Successful technical development of our products does not guarantee successful commercialization. We may successfully complete the technical development for one or all of our product development programs, but still fail to develop a commercially successful product for a number of reasons, including among others the following: · failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals for their use; · prohibitive production costs; · competing products; · lack of innovation of the product; · ineffective distribution and marketing; · lack of sufficient cooperation from our partners; and · demonstrations of the airships not aligning with or meeting customer needs. We have not yet sold any of our airships in the commercial marketplace and our success in the market for the products we develop will depend largely on our ability to prove our airships’ capabilities. Upon demonstration, our airships may not have the capabilities they were designed to have or that we believed they would have. Furthermore, even if we do successfully demonstrate our airships’ capabilities, potential customers may be more comfortable doing business with a larger, more established, more proven company than us. Moreover, competing products may prevent us from gaining wide market acceptance of our products. Significant revenue from new product investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Our potential customers are likely to be government or government-related entities that are subject to appropriations by Congress and reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs would likely adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. We anticipate that the majority of our revenue at least in the foreseeable future will come from U.S. government and government-related entities, including both the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies. Government programs that we may seek to participate in must compete with other programs for consideration during Congress’ budget and appropriations hearings, and may be affected by changes not only in political power and appointments but also general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Reductions, extensions or terminations in a program that we are seeking to participate in or overall defense spending could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and realize any profits. We cannot predict whether potential changes in security, defense and intelligence priorities will afford opportunities for our business in terms of research and development or product contracts, but any reduction in government spending on such programs could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. 13 We may not qualify as a U.S. government contractor, and if we do, we will be subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. We have not yet been qualified to be a contractor, and have done no business yet, with the U.S. Government and if we fail to so qualify, our ability to generate revenues would be severely affected. If we do so qualify, to do business with the U.S. government, we will be required to comply with and will be affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we will do business with our customers, and in some instances, will impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of any then existing contracts or the inability to bid on future contracts. Our airships are subject to significant governmental regulation that could significantly increase our research and development costs and could limit our ability to generate revenues. Our airships are subject to regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which currently does not allow any untethered flights by UAVs in commercial airspace in the U.S. and is evaluating how to address such flights by UAVs in U.S. commercial airspace. This increases our costs of research and development by requiring us to procure access to restricted airspace for our testing and demonstrations of our airships. We do not know if or when these regulations may change. If the FAA continues to prohibit flights by UAVs, our ability to generate revenues may be significantly adversely affected. International sales of our products may also be subject to U.S. laws, regulations and policies like the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and other export laws and regulations and may be subject to first obtaining licenses, clearances or authorizations from various regulatory entities. If we are not allowed to export our airships or the clearance process is burdensome, our ability to generate revenue would be adversely affected. The failure to comply with any of these regulations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues as well as increasing our operating costs. The nature of our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by insurance or indemnity. We develop and sell products where insurance or indemnification may not be available, including: · Designing, developing and producing products using advanced and unproven technologies and airships in intelligence and homeland security applications that operate in high demand, high risk situations; and · Designing developing and producing products to collect, distribute and analyze various types of information. Failure of our airships could result in loss of life or property damage. Certain products may raise questions with respect to issues of civil liberties, intellectual property, trespass, conversion and similar concepts, which may raise new legal issues. Indemnification to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed or deployed may be available in certain circumstances but not in others. We are not able to maintain insurance to protect against all operational risks and uncertainties. Substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our product, or liability arising from our products in excess of any indemnity or insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or was not obtained) could harm our financial condition, cash flows, and operating results. Any accident, even if fully covered or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. We compete with companies that have significantly more resources than us and already have government contracts for the development of an airship. A number of our competitors have received considerable funding from government or government-related sources to develop and build a mid- or high-altitude UAV. Most of these organizations and many of our other competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources and capabilities than we do. Our products will compete both with not only other lighter-than-air UAVs but also with heavier-than-air fixed wing aircraft, manned aircraft, communications satellites, and tethered aerostats and balloons. We anticipate increasing competition as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. In addition, other companies may introduce competing airships or solutions based on alternative technologies that may adversely affect our competitive position. As a result, our products may become less or non-competitive or obsolete. If we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we may fail to generate revenues and our financial condition would be adversely affected. 14 We are subject to a number of lawsuits that could result in material judgments against us. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims and demands mostly related to the operation of the Company’s business by prior management. These matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. We intend to aggressively defend ourselves in each of these proceedings but no assurances can be give that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or demands that cannot be predicted with certainty could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Any claims and litigation, even if fully reserved or insured for, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to raise capital, secure contracts or to compete effectively. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose our ability to compete in the marketplace. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are one of the keys to our performance and ability to remain competitive and are necessary for the success of our products and our business. Patent protection can be limited and not all intellectual property is or can be patented. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality agreements and procedures, non-compete agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, other proprietary rights and our brand. We have little protection when we must rely on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees or competitors. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop technologies and products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies and/or products, which could result in decreased revenues. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs to us and substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use it to enhance their products. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and financial condition, and the value of our brand and other intangible assets. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, which could materially increase our costs and harm our ability to generate future revenue and profit. We do not believe our airship technologies infringe the proprietary rights of any third party, but claims of infringement are becoming increasingly common and third parties may assert infringement claims against us. It may be difficult or impossible to identify, prior to receipt of notice from a third party, the trade secrets, patent position or other intellectual property rights of a third party, either in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions. Any such assertion may result in litigation or may require us to obtain a license for the intellectual property rights of third parties. If we are required to obtain licenses to use any third party technology, we would have to pay royalties, which may significantly reduce any profit on our products. In addition, any such litigation could be expensive and disruptive to our ability to generate revenue or enter into new market opportunities. If any of our products were found to infringe other parties’ proprietary rights and we are unable to come to terms regarding a license with such parties, we may be forced to modify our products to make them non-infringing or to cease production of such products altogether. If we are unable to recruit and retain key management, technical and sales personnel, our business would be negatively affected. For our business to be successful, we need to attract and retain highly qualified technical, management and sales personnel. As of March 21, 2011 we employed four employees and relied heavily on outside partners and contractors. The failure to recruit additional key personnel when needed with specific qualifications and on acceptable terms might impede our ability to continue to develop, commercialize and sell our products. To the extent the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting and training costs in order to attract and retain such employees. The loss of any members of our management team may also delay or impair achievement of our business objectives and result in business disruptions due to the time needed for their replacements to be recruited and become familiar with our business. We face competition for qualified personnel from other companies with significantly more resources available to them and thus may not be able to attract the level of personnel needed for our business to succeed. 15 We may make future acquisitions or enter into joint ventures that are not successful, which could seriously harm our business. We entered into a joint venture in 2008 with our then technology partner TAO Technologies. Although we continue to discuss a potential future relationship, pursuant to the terms of a Settlement Agreement, we have terminated all of the agreements between us and TAO and we are in the process of unwinding the joint venture. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint ventures for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business. Negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures and our integration of acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue equity securities that would dilute existing stockholders, incur contingent liabilities, amortize intangible assets, or write off in-process research and development and other acquisition-related expenses that could have a material adverse affect on our business. These future acquisitions or joint ventures may not result in their anticipated benefits and we may not be able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses, with our existing products and operations or combine personnel and cultures. Failure to do so could deprive us of the intended benefits of those acquisitions. The control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may until remedied cause errors in our financial statements or cause our filings with the SEC to not be timely. We have identified control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as of the evaluation done by management as of December 31, 2010. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely made with the SEC. Based on the work undertaken and performed by us, however, we believe the consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are fairly stated in all material respects in accordance with GAAP for each of the periods presented. We are implementing additional corporate governance and control measures to strengthen our control environment, but we may not achieve our desired objectives. Moreover, no control environment, no matter how well designed and operated, can prevent or detect all errors or fraud. We may identify material weaknesses and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future that may require remediation and could lead investors losing confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. 16 Risks Related To Ownership of Our Common Stock Market volatility and fluctuations in our stock price and trading volume may cause sudden decreases in the value of an investment in our common stock. The market for our common stock is illiquid and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · limited numbers of buyers and sellers in the market; · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · our ability or inability to generate new revenues; · the development of our products; and · increased competition or technological innovations or new products by competitors. The market price of our common stock has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has ranged from between $0.04 to $0.12 in the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition to the extremely volatile nature of the stock market, our stock price has been affected by our own public announcements regarding such things as financings and product development. Furthermore, our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance which include stock market fluctuations, general economic, political and overall global market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations, in addition to market conditions in our industry. Consequently, events both within and beyond our control may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our shares. As of March 21, 2011, we had approximately 21,000 stockholders, many of whom have held their shares for the required holding periods under Rule 144 promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act and thus would hold freely tradable shares. The actual or anticipated resale by our stockholders of such shares may depress the market price of our common stock as could bulk sales of shares of our common stock in a short period of time. Future equity or convertible debenture financings will result in additional dilution of the ownership interest of our existing investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our operations. Historically the primary source of the additional capital we have raised has been equity and convertible debentures, and we expect that equity-related instruments will continue to be a source of additional capital. Any future equity or convertible debenture financings will dilute the ownership interest of our existing investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, the terms of various securities we have issued provide for anti-dilution adjustments to their exercise or conversion price in certain circumstances. Since their issuance, certain of our warrants have been re-priced numerous times due to later sales deemed dilutive issuances under their terms. Additional dilutive issuances could trigger certain of these anti-dilution provisions that could negatively impact the price of our common stock. We have authorized preferred stock which can be designated by our board of directors without shareholder approval. We have authorized 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each of which shall have distinctive designation or title as shall be determined by our board of directors prior to the issuance of any shares thereof. The preferred stock shall have such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as adopted by our board of directors. Because our board of directors is able to designate the powers and preferences of the preferred stock without the vote of the holders of our common stock, the holders of our common stock will have no control over what designations and preferences our preferred stock will have. As a result of this, our board of directors could designate one or more series of preferred stock with superior rights to the rights of the holders of our common stock. 17 Investors may face significant restrictions on the resale of our common stock due to federal regulations of penny stock. Our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9, promulgated under the Exchange Act, as long as the price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share. Under such rule, broker-dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock. Generally, the SEC defines a penny stock as any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The required penny stock disclosures include the delivery, prior to any transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. In addition, various state securities laws impose restrictions on transferring penny stocks. Furthermore, certain brokers or on-line trading houses may not accept our common stock for brokerage accounts at their firms. Such requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our securities and the ability of purchasers to sell our securities in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 