ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS Certain information included in this Form 10-K and other materials filed or to be filed by GlobeTel Communications Corp. ("GlobeTel," "we" "us" or "ours") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (as well as information included in oral or written statements made from time to time by us, may contain forward-looking statements about our current and expected performance trends, business plans, goals and objectives, expectations, intentions, assumptions and statements concerning other matters that are not historical facts. These statements may be contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases, in other written communications, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our authorized officers. Words or phrases such as "believe", "plan", "will likely result", "expect", "intend", "will continue", "is anticipated", "estimate", "project", "may", "could", "would", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements, and any other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 15 U.S.C.A. Sections 77Z-2 and 78U-5 (SUPP. 1996), as codified in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Act"). Those statements include statements regarding our intent, belief or current expectations, and those of our officers and directors and the officers and directors of our subsidiaries as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results and the timing of certain events may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act, we are filing the following summary to identify important factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. These cautionary statements are to be used as a reference in connection with any forward-looking statements. The factors, risks and uncertainties identified in these cautionary statements are in addition to those contained in any other cautionary statements, written or oral, which may be made or otherwise addressed in connection with a forward-looking statement or contained in any of our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Because of these factors, risks and uncertainties, we caution against placing undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be incorrect, and there can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to modify or revise any forward-looking statement to take into account or otherwise reflect subsequent events, or circumstances arising after the date that the forward-looking statement was made. This annual report also contains certain estimates and plans related to the telecommunications industry in which we operate. The estimates and plans assume that certain events, trends and activities will occur, of which there can be no assurance. In particular, we do not know what level of growth will exist, if any, in the telecommunications industry, and particularly in those domestic and international markets in which we operate. Our growth will be dependent upon our ability to compete with larger telecommunications companies, and such factors as our ability to collect on our receivables and to generate profitable revenues from operations and/or from the sale of debt or equity securities, of which there can be no assurance. If our assumptions are wrong about any events, trends and activities, then our estimates for the future growth of GlobeTel and our consolidated business operations may also be wrong. There can be no assurance that any of our estimates as to our business growth will be achieved. The following risk factors may affect our operating results and the environment within which we conduct our business. If our projections and estimates regarding these factors differ materially from what actually occurs, our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. These risk factors include, but are not limited to: o Changes in general economic, demographic, geopolitical or public safety conditions which affect consumer behavior and spending, including the ongoing ramifications of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the governmental response to those attacks, including the armed conflict in Iraq or other potential countries; o Increasing competition in the VoIP segment of the telecommunications industry; o Adverse Internet conditions which impact customer traffic on our Company's networks in general and which cause the temporary underutilization of available bandwidth; o Various factors which increase the cost to develop and/or affect the number and timing of the openings of new networks, including factors under the influence and control of government agencies and others; o Fluctuations in the availability and/or cost of local minutes or other resources necessary to successfully operate our Company's networks; o Our Company's ability to raise prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, including increased costs for local minutes; o The feasibility and commercial viability of our Stratellite project; related contemplated funding from third parties to finance the project, and necessary cooperation with various military and non-military agencies of the United States government, and similar agencies of foreign government and telecommunication companies; o Depth of management and technical expertise and source of intellectual and technological resources; o Adverse publicity about us and our business; o Our current dependence on affiliates in our overseas markets; o The rate of growth of general and administrative expenses associated with building a strengthened corporate infrastructure to support our Company's growing operations; o Political and economic risks of doing business outside the United States, relations between our Company and its employees; legal claims and litigation against the Company; o The availability, amount, type, and cost of capital for the Company and the deployment of such capital, including the amounts of planned capital expenditures; o Changes in, or any failure to comply with, governmental regulations; the amount of, and any changes to, tax rates and the success of various initiatives to minimize taxes; and other risks and uncertainties referenced in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 11 This statement, and any other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as codified in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Act"). 