ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following section lists some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should carefully consider these risks in evaluating our company and business. Our business operations may be impaired if any of the following risks actually occur, and by additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know of or that we currently consider immaterial. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Common Stock Our revenues substantially come from royalties from the sale of Dacogen. If Dacogen does not continue to be commercially successful, our future revenues would be limited and our business would be harmed. Dacogen is approved for the treatment of MDS in the United States and 35 smaller countries globally, but is not yet approved in Japan. In July 2006, Eisai sublicensed Dacogen to Cilag, giving Cilag responsibility for conducting regulatory activities related to Dacogen and granting it exclusive development and commercialization rights in Europe and all territories outside North America. We may receive up to $12.5 million in future contingent payments upon achievement of global regulatory and sales targets. However, we cannot guarantee that some or all of the payments will be received at all, or the timing of such payments, if any. Dacogen is approved in the United States and has been granted Orphan Drug exclusivity by the FDA through May 2013. Once the Orphan Drug exclusivity period ends, Dacogen will be susceptible to generic competition by other pharmaceutical companies. Generic market entry typically causes sales of the trade name drug to decline rapidly. If Eisai's sales of Dacogen decrease, our royalty revenue will decrease commensurately, and we cannot be assured that Eisai will commit the resources to expand sales of Dacogen. Currently, the royalty revenue we receive from Eisai is our primary source of revenue, and we are dependent on Dacogen royalty revenue to fund our operations. In the event of a meaningful generic market entry or a reduction of resources for sales of Dacogen, our revenues could decrease significantly and rapidly, which would have a debilitating impact on our ability to operate our business on an ongoing basis. Cilag submitted an MAA to the European Medicines Agency in May 2011 for Dacogen in the treatment of patients with AML. In September 2012, the European Commission approved the marketing authorization for Dacogen for the treatment of adult patients (age 65 years and above) with newly diagnosed de novo or secondary AML, according to the World Health Organization classification, who are not candidates for standard induction chemotherapy. At the same time, Dacogen was also granted a 10-year Orphan Drug designation in Europe for the treatment of elderly AML. Although we expect that the anticipated decrease in United States-based Dacogen levels will be offset by some degree by an increase in Dacogen-based revenues in Europe, we cannot predict the timing or amount of any such increases, or that there will actually be any offsetting revenues at all. Our license agreement with Eisai may not produce the full financial benefits that we are anticipating, which could cause our business to suffer. We expect to record development and license revenue from contingent payments to be made to us by Eisai upon the achievement of regulatory and commercialization events. However, we may never receive such payments because the events may never occur, either because of failure to secure additional regulatory approvals of Dacogen, or due to Eisai's or Cilag's failure or inability to expend the resources to grow or commence sales of Dacogen as prescribed by the license agreement. In 21 Table of Contents addition, the license agreement provides that Eisai will pay us (i) a certain portion of revenues payable to Eisai as a result of Eisai sublicensing the rights to market, sell and/or distribute Dacogen, to the extent such revenues are in excess of the contingent payments already due to us under our agreement with Eisai, and (ii) a 20% royalty increasing to a maximum of 30% on annual worldwide net sales of Dacogen. We cannot guarantee that we will receive these payments, and we cannot be assured that Eisai will commit the resources to expand sales of Dacogen in North America, or that Cilag will commit the resources to successfully commercialize the drug in Europe, Japan, and elsewhere, or that either company will be successful in doing so. Because we are heavily reliant on royalties and contingent payments relating to Dacogen to fund our operations, the failure to receive the contingent payments and/or royalty revenue from sales of Dacogen would cause our business to suffer. If we do not obtain additional revenues from Eisai or Cilag, and we do not find a replacement revenue source, our cash position will decrease significantly. Our collaborative relationships may not produce the financial benefits that we are anticipating, which would cause our business to suffer. Part of our strategy is to partner with, or out-license selective products to, other pharmaceutical companies in order to mitigate the cost of developing a drug through late-stage clinical trials to commercialization. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to establish such partnerships, nor can there be any guarantee that any of the products developed under such partnerships will be approved for sale by regulatory authorities or successful in the clinic or the market. If our partners do not successfully develop our products and obtain regulatory approvals, then we will not be able to earn future revenue from these collaborative relationships and our ability to operate our business on an ongoing basis may be impacted. We have a history of operating losses and we may incur losses for the foreseeable future. Since inception, we have funded our research and development activities primarily from private placements and public offerings of our securities, milestone and other payments from collaborators, sales of our products, and royalty revenue on sales of Dacogen. As a result of our substantial research and development expenditures and minimal product revenues, we have incurred cumulative losses of $326.5 million through December 31, 2012, and have not consistently generated enough funds through our operations to support our business. Although we were profitable in the last three years, we expect to have operating losses over the next few years and we may never achieve sustained profitability. Whether we achieve sustained profitability depends primarily on the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: •successful sales of Dacogen in North America by Eisai; •successful commercialization of Dacogen in Europe by Cilag; •obtaining additional regulatory approvals outside of North America and the successful commercialization of Dacogen outside of North America by Cilag; •obtaining the necessary reimbursement authorizations to penetrate controlled markets •limiting or preventing delays in production of Dacogen; •the success of our joint development programs with GSK and our other collaborative partners and whether our partners exercise their options to further develop and commercialize any of the compounds resulting from the respective joint development efforts; •our ability to discover and develop additional novel therapeutics that might advance through our internal clinical development infrastructure; 22 Table of Contents •our ability to leverage the Pyramid drug development platform for commercially viable drugs; •our research and development efforts, including the timing and costs of clinical trials; •our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our products; •our ability to successfully integrate the ATL research and development and management teams; •our ability to successfully compete against products developed and brought to market by our competitors; •our ability to control costs and expenses associated with the discovery, development, and manufacturing of our novel compounds, as well as general and administrative costs related to conducting our business; and •costs and expenses associated with entering into and performing under licensing, joint development, and other collaborative agreements. Our products and product candidates, even if successfully developed and approved, may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to achieve or sustain profitability, or even to maintain our ongoing operations. There are inherent challenges and significant upfront costs that result from our increased reliance on the Pyramid drug discovery platform, and if we fail to overcome these challenges or incur development costs that do not result in meaningful commercial drug sales, our business will be negatively impacted. Pyramid is a fragment-chemistry based drug discovery platform used to identify and develop new medicines, primarily for the treatment of cancer and infectious diseases. Pyramid defines a process by which a range of high throughput biophysical and computational techniques are used to experimentally characterize the interactions of very low molecular weight compounds (fragments) with their target proteins. Although we believe there are many advantages of a fragment-based approach to drug discovery, there are significant technical challenges to overcome for the approach to be used effectively. The fundamental challenge is one of detection. Because fragments are so small, they have fewer interactions with target proteins than larger, more complex compounds. This means the fragments will bind to their targets with very low affinity. Conventional screening systems based on bioassays are designed to detect binding that occurs at higher affinities than is typically observed with fragments. As such, fragments cannot be detected using conventional screening methods. As a result, a fundamental challenge in fragment-based drug discovery is the development of efficient screening systems that can detect the binding of fragments. The Pyramid drug discovery platform addresses limitations in conventional high throughput screening and other forms of fragment-based screening through technologically sophisticated equipment that requires significant capital investment and upkeep and highly-trained chemists and scientists to analyze resulting data. While we believe this approach will provide us with more meaningful leads in developing commercially viable drugs, it is a scientifically rigorous method that involves a significant investment of resources. If commercially viable drugs are not developed through this process, we will have invested significant resources without any corresponding revenues to at least offset our costs, and our business will suffer. We will require additional funding to expand our product pipeline, either developed internally or through acquisitions, and commercialize new drugs, and if we are unable to raise the necessary capital or to do so on acceptable terms, our planned expansion and continued chances of survival could be harmed. We will continue to spend substantial resources on expanding our product pipeline, developing future products, and conducting research and development, including clinical trials for our product candidates. We also monitor the possibility of expanding our product pipeline and development capabilities through strategic acquisitions. Based on our currently forecasted product development 23 Table of Contents activities, we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate to fund operations and capital expenditures through at least the end of 2014. However, if we experience unanticipated cash requirements during this period, we could require additional funds much sooner. We may raise money by the sale of our equity securities or debt through a shelf registration statement; however, given uncertain market conditions and the volatility of our stock price, we may not be able to sell our securities in public offerings or private placements at prices and/or on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The dilutive effect of additional financings could adversely affect our per share results. Additionally, we may receive proceeds from the exercise of outstanding stock options by the holders of such options. We may also choose to obtain funding through licensing and other contractual agreements. For example, we licensed the worldwide rights to the development, commercialization and distribution of Dacogen to Eisai. Such arrangements may require us to relinquish our rights to our technologies, products or marketing territories, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain adequate funding in a timely manner, or at all, we will be forced to scale back our product development activities, or be forced to cease our operations. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination with ATL, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of the integration of ATL will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining ATL into our operations. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, we must successfully combine the acquired business with our legacy operations and integrate our respective operations, technologies and personnel, which is particularly challenging given the geographic and cultural differences between the personnel and facilities based in the UK and on the US west coast. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our operations. It is possible that the integration process could adversely affect our ability to maintain our research and development operations, result in the loss of key employees and other senior management, or to otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Specifically, risks in integrating ATL into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other factors: •failure to effectively coordinate research and drug candidate development efforts to communicate our product capabilities and expected product roadmap; •failure to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to us and our potential expanded drug offerings; •coordinating research and development activities to enhance the introduction of new drug development methodologies and drug discovery platforms acquired in the acquisition; •failure to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems of the two companies; •retaining ATL's relationships with pharmaceutical company partners; •integrating a senior management team as well as integrating members from both companies on the board of directors of Astex Pharmaceuticals; 24 Table of Contents •coordinating operations across time zones and continents; •retaining and integrating key employees from ATL; •managing effectively the diversion of management's attention from business matters to integration issues; •combining research and development capabilities effectively and quickly; •integrating partnership efforts so that new partners acquired can easily do business with us; •transitioning all facilities to a common information technology environment; and •combining our business culture in the US with the business culture of the UK operation. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the business acquired from ATL into our own, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration. The anticipated benefits and synergies assume a successful integration and are based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, and other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be achieved. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock. Some examples of how we may not realize anticipated benefits include the risk of the following: •cost of development programs may be higher than forecasted; •forecasted contingent payments from collaborations may not be received as anticipated; and •exchange rate risk associated with any existing or anticipated cash denominated in another currency may reduce the expected value actually received from the UK when translated from British Pounds Sterling. We have incurred significant costs related to the acquisition of ATL and expect to incur more as integration plans continue. If we are unable to offset the costs of the acquisition through realization of efficiencies, our bottom line will suffer. We have incurred significant non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of ATL with our own business. The substantial majority of non-recurring costs have been comprised of costs related to the execution of the acquisition, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. We have also incurred fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental acquisition and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Our stockholder base experienced dilution of their percentage ownership of our common stock and could be further diluted within the next 12 months. As a result of the acquisition of ATL, we issued new shares of common stock to certain former ATL securityholders, representing approximately 35% of the total outstanding voting power of all our stockholders following the closing. The issuance of these shares caused our stockholders at the time of the acquisition to experience immediate and significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our 25 Table of Contents outstanding common stock. Although we elected to pay the first $15.2 million of deferred consideration in cash, our stockholders may experience additional dilution in the event that our Audit Committee determines to pay some or all of the remaining $14.8 million in deferred consideration in the form of shares of our common stock. We also assumed certain outstanding options and warrants of ATL in the acquisition; if these options or warrants are exercised, our stockholders will suffer additional dilution. As a result of the acquisition of ATL, certain former ATL securityholders held over a third of our outstanding common stock, which could limit the influence of our other stockholders over the election of directors and other significant corporate actions or discourage third parties from proposing a change in our control. As of the closing of the acquisition, certain former ATL securityholders, as a group comprised of approximately 13 entities (counting any affiliated shareholders as one entity) who previously held preferred shares in ATL, owned approximately 35% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock, and have designated four of the members serving on our nine-member board of directors. Accordingly, as a group, if the former ATL stockholders do not sell their shares received in the acquisition, they will be able to exert significant influence over the outcome of a range of corporate matters, including significant corporate transactions requiring a stockholder vote, such as a merger or a sale of the combined company or its assets. This potential concentration of ownership and influence in management and board decision-making could also harm the price of our common stock by, among other things, discouraging a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of our common stock (whether by making a tender offer or otherwise) or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company. If any of the deferred consideration that has not already been paid is paid in shares of our common stock, although the size of the group of former ATL securityholders holding our shares would increase (due to the distribution of deferred consideration shares to ordinary shareholders as well as preferred shareholders), the expanded group would hold an even greater percentage of the outstanding post-closing stock of Astex Pharmaceuticals, thereby exacerbating the risk of concentrated ownership. Furthermore, the ownership position of the former ATL securityholders could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction. As a result, our common stock could trade at prices that do not reflect a "control premium" to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a group of stockholders with an ownership interest as large as the former ATL stockholders' collective ownership interest. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets. Consequently, potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may significantly impact our financial position and results of operations. Goodwill and other intangibles, most of which was recorded as a result of the acquisition of ATL, represent a significant portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are subject to impairment analysis at least on an annual basis. Additionally, goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to impairment analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Events giving rise to impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets are an inherent risk in the biotechnology industry and cannot be predicted. Impairment could also arise as a result of general economic or industry-wide conditions which could reduce the market price of our common stock and the fair value of the Company as a whole. As a result of the significance of goodwill and other intangible assets, our financial position and results of operations in future periods could be negatively impacted should impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets occur. Intangible assets related to in-process research and development projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are related to acquired developed technology and acquired rights in non-active collaboration agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2012, one of our collaboration partners ceased development of three research and development projects, which 26 Table of Contents resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of $7,402,000, which negatively impacted our results of operations. If any of our partners were to take similar actions in the future, our results of operations would again be negatively impacted.. Product Development and Regulatory Risks Our product candidates will require significant additional development. Many of our product candidates are in the development, rather than the clinical trial stage. However, we must significantly develop all of our product candidates before we can market them, or before they will become desirable for partnering or licensing. Although we believe that our pre-clinical and pilot clinical studies support further development of these product candidates, the results we have obtained to date do not necessarily indicate what results further testing would yield, including expanded controlled human clinical testing. All of the product candidates that we are currently developing will require extensive large scale clinical testing before we or our licensing partners can submit any regulatory application for their commercial use. We may not be able to commercialize some or all of these products in a timely manner or at all. Our product development efforts may ultimately fail. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. These risks include the following: •some of our product candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective, or may fail to receive the necessary regulatory clearances in a timely manner, if at all; •even if safe and effective, our product candidates may be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or may be uneconomical to market; •the proprietary rights of third parties may preclude us from marketing such products; and •third parties may market more effective or less costly products for treatment of the same diseases. As a result, we cannot be certain that any of our products will be successfully developed, be submitted to regulatory authorities for approval, or receive required governmental approvals on a timely basis, become commercially viable or achieve market acceptance. Before we or our licensing partners can seek regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we must complete large scale clinical trials, which are expensive and have uncertain outcomes. If we do not develop drugs that are ultimately approved by regulators and then become commercially successful, we will not recoup our investments and our business will suffer. All of our product candidates will require the commitment of substantial resources and regulatory approval. Before seeking or obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we or our licensing partners must demonstrate through substantial evidence and through clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans for the particular indications we are studying. We have a portfolio of cancer drugs in various stages of early development. We are currently conducting clinical trials on our products AT13387, SGI-110, AT7519, AT9283, and AT13148. We also expect to commence other new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time consuming and expensive process and the results are inherently uncertain. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense for, and we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a significant amount of time to, non-clinical testing and clinical trials. However, regulatory authorities may not permit us to complete existing or undertake any additional clinical trials for our product candidates. If we are unable to complete our existing clinical trials or undertake additional clinical trials, our business will be severely harmed and the price of our stock will likely decline. 27 Table of Contents We also have ongoing research and non-clinical projects that may lead to product candidates, but we have not submitted to regulatory authorities a request to begin clinical testing, nor have we begun clinical trials for these projects. If we do not successfully complete our non-clinical trials, we might not be able to commence clinical trials as planned. Our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated, which would prevent us or our licensing partners from seeking necessary regulatory approvals, making our products unmarketable. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of a clinical trial varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The length of time and complexity of these studies make regulatory approval unpredictable. The commencement and rate of completion of our clinical trials or those of our licensing partners may be delayed by many factors, including: •ineffectiveness of the study compound, or perceptions by physicians that the compound is not effective for a particular indication; •inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in clinical trials; •inability to obtain FDA approval of our clinical trial protocols; •inability to successfully identify, contract, and qualify new clinical sites; •slower than expected rate of patient recruitment; •inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; •difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; •unforeseen safety issues; •lack of efficacy demonstrated during the clinical trials; or •governmental or regulatory delays. If we or our licensing partners are unable to achieve a satisfactory rate of completion of our clinical trials, our business will be significantly harmed. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if they are not conducted in compliance with regulatory requirements, and then might have no opportunity to recoup our investment. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with strictly enforced laws and regulations of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and are subject to continuous oversight by these authorities, and institutional review boards and ethical committees. We outsource certain aspects of our research and development activities to contract research organizations ("CROs"). We have agreements with these CROs for certain of our clinical programs. We and our CROs are required to comply with GCP regulations and guidelines for all of our products in clinical development. GCPs are enforced by regulatory authorities through periodic, unannounced inspections of study sponsors, principal investigators, and study sites. If our CROs or we fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable and regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional studies before approving our applications. Our non-clinical safety studies must be conducted according to good laboratory practice regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under current good manufacturing practice regulations, and may require a large number of test subjects. Failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical studies, which would delay the regulatory approval process and add significant costs to our operations. 28 Table of Contents We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if later trial results fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or if the results are negative or inconclusive. Clinical trials may be suspended at any time if we, ethics committees, or the FDA believe the patients participating in our studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if we, ethics committees, or the FDA find deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Adverse drug events during a clinical trial could cause us to terminate or repeat a clinical trial. We may encounter other problems and failures in studies that would cause us, ethics committees, or the FDA to delay or suspend the studies. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. For example, on March 6, 2012, the FDA declined to approve a supplemental marketing application filed by Eisai upon the completion of a randomized Phase III clinical trial of Dacogen in elderly patients with AML. The FDA declined the application because the pre-specified analysis of the primary endpoint in the study did not demonstrate statistically significant superiority of Dacogen over the control arm. Negative or inconclusive results during a clinical trial could cause us to terminate or repeat a clinical trial. The potential failures would delay development of our product candidates, hinder our ability to conduct related non-clinical testing and clinical trials and further delay the commencement of the regulatory approval process. Further, the failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials would delay our product development and the regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical industry. Finally, if we are required to conduct other clinical trials for the product candidates, the additional trials would require substantial funding and time, and we may be unable to obtain funding to conduct such clinical trials. As a result, we may expend significant time and expense in drug development for drugs that never become commercially viable. Our or our licensing partners' failure to obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates in foreign countries and delays caused by government regulation would adversely affect our anticipated revenues. Sales of our products in foreign jurisdictions will be subject to separate regulatory requirements and marketing approvals. Approval in the United States, or in any one foreign jurisdiction, does not ensure approval in any other jurisdiction. The process of obtaining foreign approvals may result in significant delays, difficulties and expenses for us, and may require additional clinical trials. Although many of the regulations applicable to our products in these foreign countries are similar to those promulgated by the FDA, many of these requirements also vary widely from country to country, which could delay the introduction of our products in those countries. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain required approvals would impair our ability to commercialize or receive royalty revenues for our products in foreign markets. Further, governmental approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. For example, despite receipt of governmental approval, the facilities of our third-party manufacturers are still subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and must continue to comply with good manufacturing practices and other regulations. These regulations govern all areas of production, record keeping, personnel and quality control. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with any of the manufacturing regulations, we may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 29 Table of Contents Even if regulatory approval of our products is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of a product, including withdrawal of that product from the market. Previously unidentified adverse events or an increased frequency of adverse events that may occur post-approval could result in labeling modifications of approved products, which could adversely affect future marketing. Approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Changes in U.S. and foreign laws and regulations may delay product development and adversely affect our revenues and our operations We could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, our products, (ii) changes in intellectual property laws that make it more difficult for us to protect and enforce our proprietary rights, (iii) changes in GCP regulations and guidelines for products in clinical development that create more burdensome requirements and add costs to our operations. Changes in foreign regulations could also result in failure to secure regulatory approval of Dacogen in some territories and our future revenues from royalty payments from sales of Dacogen in those territories would decrease and ultimately cease. Any legal or regulatory changes could negatively affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our company. If we are unable to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our business may be harmed. We are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We currently maintain a supply of biohazardous materials at some of our facilities. We believe our safety procedures for these materials comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we carry what we believe to be adequate insurance coverage for the size of our business. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, which could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. We currently outsource certain of our research and development programs involving the controlled use of biohazardous materials. We believe our collaborators have in place safety procedures for these materials that comply with governmental standards. Nevertheless, if an accident does occur, our research and product development will be negatively affected. Additional Risks Associated with Our Business If the third-party manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our clinical trial products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or fail to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the delivery of our products to clinical trial sites. Because we have no manufacturing facilities, we rely on third parties for manufacturing activities related to all of our product candidates. As we develop new products, we must establish and maintain relationships with manufacturers to produce and package sufficient supplies of our finished 30 Table of Contents pharmaceutical products for use in clinical trials. Reliance on third party manufacturing presents the following risks: •delays in scale-up to quantities needed for multiple clinical trials, or failure to (a) manufacture such quantities to our specifications or (b) deliver such quantities on the dates we require, which could cause delay or suspension of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; •potential relinquishment or sharing of intellectual property rights to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products; and •unannounced ongoing inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies for compliance with GMPs, regulations and foreign standards, and failure to comply with any of these regulations and standards may subject us to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these factors could delay clinical trials or commercialization of our product candidates under development, and entail higher costs, all of which would have a negative impact on our revenues and business. Our business may be harmed if the manufacture of our products is interrupted or discontinued. We may be unable to maintain our relationships with our third-party manufacturers. If we need to replace or seek new manufacturing arrangements, we may have difficulty locating and entering into arrangements with qualified contract manufacturers on acceptable terms, if at all. We are aware of only a limited number of companies on a worldwide basis who operate manufacturing facilities in which our products can be manufactured to the required specifications and in compliance with GMPs. It could take several months, or significantly longer, for a new contract manufacturing facility to obtain FDA approval and to develop substantially equivalent processes for the production of our product candidates. We may not be able to contract with any of these companies on acceptable terms, if at all. Any delay in, or inability to, implement adequate replacements could harm our reputation, cause delays in our product timelines, and negatively impact our clinical trials, as well as our revenues and business. If our suppliers cannot provide the components we require, our future product sales and revenue could be harmed. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with numerous components used in our products under development. Relying on third-party suppliers makes us vulnerable to component failures and interruptions in supply, either of which could impair our ability to conduct clinical trials on a timely basis. Using third-party suppliers makes it difficult and sometimes impossible for us to maintain quality control, manage inventory and production schedules and control production costs. Vendor lead times to supply us with ordered components vary significantly and can exceed six months or more. We cannot be sure that our suppliers will furnish us with required components when we need them, either now or as we expand our need for manufacturing capacity. These factors could make it difficult for us to effectively and efficiently manufacture our products, and could adversely impact our clinical trials, product development and future sales of our products. Some suppliers may be our only source for a particular component, which would make us vulnerable to cost increases and supply interruptions. We generally rely on one manufacturer for each product. Vendors may decide to limit or eliminate sales of certain products to the medical industry due to product liability or other concerns. In the event one of our sole source suppliers decides not to manufacture the component, goes out of business, or decides to cut off our supply, we may be unable 31 Table of Contents to locate replacement supply sources, or the sources that we may locate may not provide us with similar reliability or pricing and our business could suffer. If we cannot obtain a necessary component, we may need to find, test and obtain regulatory approval for a replacement component, produce the component or redesign the related product, which would cause significant delay and could increase our manufacturing costs. Any of these events could adversely impact our future sales and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain and successfully establish new collaborative and licensing arrangements with third parties, our product development and business will be harmed. Our business model is based on establishing collaborative relationships with other parties both to license compounds upon which our products and technologies are based and to manufacture our products or our collaborators' products. It is critical that we gain access to compounds and technologies to license for further development. Due to the expense of the drug approval process we must have relationships with established pharmaceutical companies to offset some of our development costs in exchange for a combination of development, marketing and distribution rights. From time to time we enter into discussions with various companies regarding the establishment of new collaborations. If we are not successful in establishing new partners for our product candidates, we may not be able to pursue further development of such product candidates and/or may have to reduce or cease our current development programs, which would materially harm our business. Even if we are successful in establishing new collaborations, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including: •our ability to negotiate acceptable collaborative arrangements; •the collaboration making us less attractive to potential acquirers; •freedom of our collaborative partners to pursue alternative technologies either on their own or with others, including our competitors, for the diseases targeted by our programs and products; •the potential failure of our partners to fulfill their contractual obligations or their decision to terminate our relationships, in which event we may be required to seek other partners, or expend substantial resources to pursue these activities independently; and •our ability to manage, interact and coordinate our timelines and objectives with our collaborative partners may not be successful. In addition, our collaborators may undergo business combinations, which could have the effect of making the collaboration with us less attractive to them for a number of reasons. For example, if an existing collaborator purchases a company that is one of our competitors, that company may be less willing to continue its collaboration with us. A company that has a strategy of purchasing companies with attractive technologies might have less incentive to enter into a collaboration agreement with us. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology or products developed with any current or future collaborator. Lengthy negotiations with potential collaborators or disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in time consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Any such delays or termination would impede our ability to develop and sell our products and have a negative impact on our business. Our collaborative relationships with third parties could cause us to expend significant funds on development costs with no assurance of financial return. From time to time we enter into collaborative relationships with third parties to discover, develop and market products, such as our relationship with Novartis. These relationships require substantial 32 Table of Contents financial commitments from us, and at the same time the product developments are subject to the same regulatory requirements, risks and uncertainties associated with the development of our other product candidates. The compounds that are the subject of these collaborative agreements may prove to be ineffective, may fail to receive regulatory approvals, may be unprotectable by patents or other intellectual property rights, or may not be otherwise commercially viable. If these collaborative relationships are not successful, our product developments will be adversely affected, and our investments and efforts devoted to the product developments will be wasted. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights will be critically important to the success of our business, and we may not be able to protect these rights in the United States or abroad. The success of our operations depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and enforce our proprietary rights against accused infringers. We actively pursue a policy of seeking patent protection when applicable for our proprietary products and technologies, whether they are developed in-house or acquired from third parties. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing United States and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. To date, we have ownership of, or acquired licenses to, numerous patents covering various aspects of our proprietary drugs and technologies. In addition, we are prosecuting a number of patent applications for new drug candidates that we are actively developing at this time. We also have patents, licenses to patents, and pending patent applications in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada, China and Israel among other countries. Limitations on patent protection, and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter, may limit the protection we have on patents issued or licensed to us in these countries. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws in the United States. In determining whether or not to seek patent protection or to license any patent in a foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential and profitability, the scope of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction and its enforceability, and the nature of terms with any potential licensees. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary drugs and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and therefore we cannot predict with certainty whether our patents will be enforced effectively. Competitors may have filed applications for, or been issued patents on, products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests which may have been issued to others. In addition, third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent any of our patents. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide adequate protection against competitors, if at all. Our pending patent applications and those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued with adequate claim scope, if at all. In addition to pursuing patent protection in appropriate instances, we also rely on trade secret protection or regulatory marketing exclusivity for unpatented proprietary technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may become known or may be independently discovered by others. Furthermore, regulatory marketing exclusivity is for a limited time period, which may not be an adequate period for our business interests. In the pharmaceutical industry there has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Claims may be brought against us in the future based on patents held by others. These persons could bring legal actions against 33 Table of Contents us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If a lawsuit against us is successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected product. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in a lawsuit filed against us or that we could obtain any licenses required under any patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Our proprietary products are dependent upon compliance with other licenses and agreements. These licenses and agreements require us to make royalty and other payments, reasonably exploit the underlying technology of the applicable patents, and comply with regulatory filings. If we fail to comply with these licenses and agreements, we could lose the underlying rights to one or more of these potential products, which would adversely affect our product development and harm our business. If we fail to compete effectively against other pharmaceutical companies, our business will suffer. The pharmaceutical industry in general and the oncology sector in particular is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. There are many companies, both public and private, including well-known pharmaceutical companies that are engaged in the discovery and development of products for some of the oncology indications that we are pursuing. Some of our competitors and probable competitors include ArQule, Inc., Array BioPharma, Crystal Genomics, Exelixis, Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Daiichi Sankyo Group, Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, Eli Lilly & Co., GSK, Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Novartis AG, Pfizer, Synta Pharmaceuticals, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development, and manufacturing resources than we do and may represent substantial long-term competition for us. Some of our competitors have received regulatory approval for products or are developing or testing product candidates that compete directly with our product candidates. For example, Dacogen faces competition from 5-aza-cytidine and other drugs in development to treat MDS, and AT13387, an Hsp90 inhibitor, faces competition from several other drugs being developed in this area of treatment. We also expect that there will be other compounds that will emerge as competition to investigational drugs progressing through our discovery pipeline. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their customers and partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering products, undertaking non-clinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection and market exclusivity, receiving FDA or foreign marketing approval or commercializing products before we do. If we elect to commence commercial product sales of our product candidates, we could be at a disadvantage relative to many companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, in areas that we may have limited or no experience. Factors affecting competition in the pharmaceutical industry vary depending on the extent to which competitors are able to achieve an advantage based on superior differentiation of their products, better go-to-market strategies, greater institutional knowledge, or depth of resources. Our ability to establish and maintain a competitive advantage will likely depend on the ability of Pyramid to discover new drug candidates more effectively and against targets not accessible by many competitors, and make accurate predictions about the effectiveness and safety of our drug candidates, as well as our ability to effectively and rapidly develop investigational drugs. Extensive research and development efforts and rapid technological progress characterize the industry in which we compete. Although we believe that our proprietary drug discovery capabilities afford us a competitive advantage relative to other discovery and development companies competing in oncology, we expect competitive intensity in this pharmaceutical segment to continue and increase over 34 Table of Contents time. Discoveries by others may render our drug discovery platforms and our current and potential products noncompetitive. Our competitive position also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel at all our geographic locations, develop effective proprietary products, implement development plans, obtain patent protection and secure adequate capital resources. The pharmaceutical industry in general and the oncology sector in particular is subject to significant and rapid technological change. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. Additionally, our products that are under patent protection face intense competition from competitors' proprietary products. This competition may increase as new products enter the market. A number of our competitors have substantially more capital, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, human and other resources and experience than we have. As a result, our competitors may: •develop products that are more effective or less costly than any of our current or future products or that render our products obsolete; •produce and market their products more successfully than we do; •establish superior proprietary positions; or •obtain FDA or foreign regulatory approval for labeling claims that are more favorable than those for our products. We will also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products after market exclusivity or patents on our proprietary products expire. Loss of patent protection typically leads to a rapid decline in sales for that product and could affect our future results. As new products enter the market, our products may become obsolete or our competitors' products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than our products. Technological advances, competitive forces and loss of intellectual property protection rights for our products may render our products obsolete. We may be subject to product liability lawsuits and our insurance may be inadequate to cover damages. Clinical trials and commercial use of our current and potential products may expose us to liability claims from the use or sale of these products. Consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies and others selling such products might make claims of this kind. Successful product liability claims against pharmaceutical products can result in hundreds of millions of dollars. Oftentimes juries are also less sympathetic towards pharmaceutical companies, which may result in high awards of damages to plaintiffs. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our products and clinical trials, under which the coverage limits are $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in the event of a claim. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If third parties bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required for the expansion of our activities, our business will suffer. Our success is dependent on key personnel, including members of our senior management and scientific staff at all our geographic locations. If any of our executive officers decide to leave and we cannot locate a qualified replacement in time to allow a smooth transition, our business may be adversely affected. To successfully expand our operations, we will need to attract and retain additional highly skilled individuals, particularly in the areas of clinical administration, non-clinical and development research, manufacturing and finance. We compete with other companies for the services of existing and potential employees; however, to the extent these employees favor larger, more established employers, we may be at a disadvantage. Earthquake or other natural or man-made disasters and business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, floods, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. In addition, our operations in California are susceptible to disruption as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes. So far we have never experienced any significant disruption of our operations as a result of earthquakes, other natural disasters, or any man-made disasters. Although we have a contingency recovery plan, any significant business interruption could cause delays in our drug development and future revenue and harm our business. Our systems face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure for the operation of our business. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data, such as our proprietary and confidential information, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or stockholders from attempting to replace our management. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: •authorization of the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of our preferred stock; •elimination of cumulative voting; and •elimination of stockholder action by written consent. Our bylaws establish procedures, including notice procedures, with regard to the nomination, other than by or at the direction of our board of directors, of candidates for election as directors or for stockholder proposals to be submitted at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover provision. In general, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prevents a stockholder owning 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock from engaging in business combinations with a Delaware corporation for three years following the date the stockholder acquired 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock. This restriction is subject to exceptions, 36 Table of Contents including the approval of the board of directors and of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. We believe that the benefits of increased protection of our potential ability to negotiate with the proponents of unfriendly or unsolicited proposals to acquire or restructure us outweigh the disadvantages of discouraging those proposals because, among other things, negotiation of those proposals could result in an improvement of their terms. Nevertheless, these provisions are expected to discourage different types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of our company to first negotiate with us, and may have the effect of preventing or discouraging third parties or stockholders from attempting to replace our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 