Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results, would likely suffer. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have a history of losses and may realize future losses Our revenues decreased approximately 20% during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, primarily due to a decrease in the price for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. However, we may not achieve, or subsequently maintain profitability if our revenues do not increase in the future. We have experienced operating losses, negative cash flow from operations and net losses in most quarterly and annual periods for the past several years. As of December 31, 2012, our net operating loss carryforward was approximately $16.7 million and our accumulated deficit was approximately $33 million. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with exploration and development of new and existing properties. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve, attain, and eventually sustain profitability. If revenues do not increase, we may be unable to attain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any of these factors could cause the price of our stock to decline. 7 Table of Contents If we default on our revolving credit facility entered into on February 29, 2012, our financial condition and future operations would be severely and negatively affected. Management has secured additional funding for 2013 capital expenditures though future capital requirements after 2013 may require additional capital borrowing, selling equity or equity-linked securities that would dilute the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders Such securities could also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Similarly, if we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, those securities may contain covenants that restrict us in terms of how we operate our business, which could also affect the value of our common stock. If we borrow more money, we will have to pay interest and may also have to agree to restrictions that limit operating flexibility. We may not be able to obtain funds needed to finance operations at all, or may be able to obtain funds only on very unattractive terms. Management may also explore other alternatives such as a joint venture with other oil and gas companies. There can be no assurances, however, that we will conclude any such transaction. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, see below for a discussion of the uncertainties involved in these processes. Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and fluids; • fires and natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have less experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale (only 22 wells drilled since 2010) and limited information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Marcellus Shale. Wells drilled to this shale are more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completion techniques than wells in other conventional areas. 8 Table of Contents We have drilled and completed only 22 Marcellus Shale wells since 2010, and as a result, have limited horizontal drilling and completion experience. Other operators in the Marcellus Shale play may have significantly more experience in the drilling and completion of these wells, including the drilling and completion of horizontal wells. In addition, we have limited information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and production decline rates in these areas. The wells drilled in the Marcellus Shale are primarily horizontal and require more stimulation, which makes them more expensive to drill and complete. The wells are also more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore due to the length of the lateral portions of these unconventional wells. The fracturing of these shale formations will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing geological formations in conventional areas of operation. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. We cannot predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. We may, from time to time, encounter difficulty in obtaining, or an increase in the cost of securing, drilling rigs, equipment, services and supplies. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment and services by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Revisions of oil and gas reserve estimates could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Oil and gas reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represent estimates, which may vary materially over time due to many factors. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant decreases due to decreases in our estimated reserves, our estimated cash flows and other factors. Estimated reserves may be subject to downward revision based upon future production, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, prevailing operating and development costs and other factors. There are numerous uncertainties and uncontrollable factors inherent in estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves, projecting future rates of production, and timing of development expenditures. In addition, the estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon various assumptions about prices and costs and future production levels that may prove to be incorrect over time. Any significant variance from those assumptions could result in material differences in the actual quantity of reserves and amount of future net cash flows from estimated oil and gas reserves. Our estimates of proved reserves have been prepared under current rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and may make comparisons to prior periods difficult and could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future. This Form 10-K presents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, which have been prepared and presented under current SEC rules. These rules require SEC registrants to prepare their reserves estimates using revised reserve definitions and pricing based on the unweighted first-day-of-the-month average pricing for the previous 12 months, rather than year-end pricing. 9 Table of Contents Current SEC requirements also state that proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of initial booking. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program, particularly as we develop our acreage in the Marcellus Shale in West Virginia. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill and develop those reserves within the required five-year timeframe. Our operations require significant amounts of capital and additional financing may be necessary in order for us to continue our exploration and development activities, including meeting certain drilling obligations under our existing lease obligations. Our cash flow from our reserves may not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times. From time to time, we may require additional financing in order to carry out our oil and gas acquisitions, exploration and development activities. Failure to obtain such financing on a timely basis could cause us to forfeit our interest in certain properties as a result of not fulfilling our existing drilling commitments. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established or we meet certain capital expenditure and drilling requirements. If our revenues from our reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or production, it will affect our ability to expend the necessary capital to replace our reserves or to maintain our current production. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements or available to us on favorable terms. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Congress has recently considered, is considering, and may continue to consider, legislation that, if adopted in its proposed or similar form, would deprive some companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of certain U.S. federal income tax incentives and deductions currently available to such companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition. Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in natural gas and oil leases is not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to drilling an exploration well, the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. It does happen, from time-to-time, that the examination made by the operator’s title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which could adversely affect our business. Exploration for and development, exploitation, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws, regulations or incremental taxes and fees, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. It is possible that new taxes on our industry could be implemented and/or tax benefits could be eliminated or reduced, reducing our profitability and available cash flow. In addition to the short-term negative impact on our financial results, such additional burdens, if enacted, would reduce our funds available for reinvestment and thus ultimately reduce our growth and future oil and natural gas production. 10 Table of Contents Matters subject to regulation include oil and gas production and saltwater disposal operations and our processing, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, such as hydrocarbons and naturally occurring radioactive materials, discharge permits for drilling operations, spacing of wells, environmental protection and taxation. We could incur significant costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental or other laws, including third party claims for personal injuries and property damage, reclamation costs, remediation and clean-up costs resulting from oil spills and discharges of hazardous materials, fines and sanctions, and other environmental damages. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for our drilling operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process, and may result in delays and restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of natural gas or oil may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Further, various municipalities in West Virginia have passed ordinances which seek to prohibit hydraulic fracturing. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. The enactment of the Dodd–Frank Act could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for swaps and other financial derivative transactions, including certain oil and gas hedging transactions. In its rulemaking under the Dodd–Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. In September 2012, The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated and remanded the rules for position limits adopted by the CFTC in October 2011 based on a necessity finding. Position limits may be imposed upon certain derivative transactions, which may restrict our ability to utilize these products. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our 11 Table of Contents exposure to less creditworthy counterparties or curtail our dealings with that counterparty. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. The rulemaking process under the Act has not been completed, and the timeframes for compliance with rules under the Act that are effective remain uncertain. Consequently, it is not possible at this time to determine the full effect that the Act and the rules and regulations adopted under the Act will have on our ability to continue to use the derivative products we currently utilize. We depend on a relatively small number of purchasers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of purchasers. Our inability to continue to provide services to key customers, if not offset by additional sales to other customers, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These companies may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons, including their lack of funding, a strategic shift on their part in moving to different geographic areas in which we do not operate or our failure to meet their performance criteria. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are many competitors in the oil and gas industry We encounter many competitors in the oil and gas industry including in the exploration and development of properties and the sale of oil and gas. Management expects competition to continue to intensify in the future. Many existing and potential competitors have greater financial resources, larger market share and more customers than us, which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position than we possess. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, we will not be able to grow and our business will be adversely affected. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and cause our stock price to be volatile which could cause the value of your investment in our shares to decline. Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline which may cause the value of your investment to decline. Some of the factors that could affect quarterly or annual operating results or impact the market price of our common stock include: • our ability to develop properties and to market our oil and gas; • the timing and amount of, or cancellation or rescheduling of, orders for our oil and gas; • our ability to retain key management, sales and marketing and engineering personnel; • a decrease in the prices of oil and gas; and • changes in costs of exploration or marketing of oil and gas. Due to these and other factors, quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Our business could be adversely affected by any adverse economic developments in the oil and gas industry and/or the economy in general. The oil and gas industry is susceptible to significant change that may influence our business development due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Some of these factors include: • varying demand for oil and gas; • fluctuations in price; • competitive factors that affect pricing; • attempts to expand into new markets; • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations; • hiring and retention of key personnel; • changes in generally accepted accounting policies, especially those related to the oil and gas industry; and • new government legislation or regulation. 12 Table of Contents Any of the above factors or a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry or with economic conditions generally, could have a negative effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. Our future success depends on retaining existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract new key employees could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, resulting in lost profitability and a slower rate of growth. Our future success also depends, in part, on the ability to retain our executive officers and other key employees. We do not carry, nor do we anticipate obtaining, “key man” insurance on our executives. It would be difficult for us to replace any one of these individuals. In addition, we may need to hire additional key personnel as we grow. We may not be able to identify and attract high quality employees or successfully assimilate new employees into our existing management structure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected. The ability to manage and operate our business as we execute our anticipated growth will require effective planning. Significant future growth could strain our internal resources, leading to a lower quality of service and other problems that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our operations could be adversely affected, resulting in slower growth and a failure to achieve or sustain profitability. Future environmental legislation related to climate change Because of growing concern over risks related to climate change, Congress has adopted or is considering the adoption of regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Prospective legislation includes possible cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. New laws and regulations could not only make our products more expensive, but also reduce demand for hydrocarbon products. Such current and pending regulations may also increase operating costs and our compliance costs, such as for enhanced monitoring of emissions. Risks relating to ownership of our common stock The price of our common stock is extremely volatile and investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above their purchase price, or at all. Our common stock is presently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, although there is no assurance that a viable market will continue. The price of our shares in the public market is highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially because of: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in or failure to meet market expectations; • conditions and trends in the oil and gas industry; and • fluctuations in stock market price and volume, which are particularly common among securities of small capitalization companies. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market value to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. If we do not generate cash from our operations to finance future business, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing opportunities. The issuance of a substantial number of our common shares to individuals or in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any such issuances would dilute the equity interests of existing stockholders. 13 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends To date, we have never declared or paid a cash dividend on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for growth and development of the business; therefore, we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Possible “Penny Stock” Regulation Trading of our common stock on the Bulletin Board may be subject to certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, commonly referred to as the “penny stock” rule. A penny stock is generally defined to be any equity security that has a market price less than $1.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in our stock will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. These may require a broker dealer to: • make a special suitability determination for purchasers of penny stocks; • receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase; and • deliver to a prospective purchaser of a penny stock, prior to the first transaction, a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. Consequently, penny stock rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock. Also, many prospective investors may not want to get involved with the additional administrative requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on the trading of our shares. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC Staff”) conducted a review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2010 and issued a letter commenting on certain aspects of these reports. We believe that all matters addressed in the comment letters and our subsequent responses to these letters and discussions with the SEC Staff have been resolved with the exception of certain disclosures related to our proved undeveloped reserves. Based on discussions with staff members at the SEC regarding the response, the remaining unresolved comment will require that the Company file an amendment to its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2010 to remove our proven undeveloped reserves that do not meet the criteria to be reported based on our financial situation. 