Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our business to date and our future viability. We are in the early stage of operations and development and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our current business and prospects. In addition, our operations and development are subject to all of the risks inherent in the growth of an early stage company. We will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we face. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug development technology and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future. Our drug candidates are at early stages of development, and we may not successfully develop a drug candidate that becomes a commercially viable drug. The drug discovery and development process is highly uncertain, and we have not developed, and may never develop, a drug candidate that ultimately leads to a commercially viable drug. Our most advanced drug candidates are in the early stages of development, and we do not have any drugs approved for commercial sale. Before a drug product is approved by the FDA for commercial marketing, it is tested for safety and effectiveness in clinical trials that can take up to six years or longer. Promising results in preclinical development or clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical and clinical trials. At any time, the FDA may place a clinical trial on clinical hold, or temporarily or permanently stop the trial, for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. We or our collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical development process that could delay or prevent our drug candidates from being successfully commercialized, including: • Failure to achieve clinical trial results that indicate a candidate is effective in treating a specified condition or illness in humans; • Safety issues, including the presence of harmful side effects; • Determination by the FDA that the submitted data do not satisfy the criteria for approval; • Lack of commercial viability of the drug; • Failure to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual property rights necessary for commercialization; and 9 Table of Contents • Existence of therapeutics that are more effective. We expect to continue to incur losses. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our losses are likely to be primarily attributable to personnel costs, working capital costs, research and development costs, and marketing costs. We may never achieve sustained profitability. We will need additional financing. We will need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We intend to finance our business, in part, through the private placement and public offering of equity and debt securities. We have historically financed our operations primarily from proceeds of registered direct offerings and private placements of equity securities and the sale of securities we acquired through investments made in other companies. In the event that we raise additional equity capital, investors’ interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional equity securities, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control. When we need additional financing, we cannot provide assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: • continue the development of our two active drug development programs; • resume development of any of our currently delayed drug development programs; • successfully out-license or otherwise monetize any of our programs; or • continue operations. Our stock price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock has been and may in the future continue to be extremely volatile. Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock, including: • our inability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, whether through the issuance of equity securities or debt; • our failure to successfully advance the development of our programs or otherwise implement our business objectives; • changes in our intellectual property portfolio or developments or disputes concerning the proprietary rights of our product candidates; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • our ability to consummate a strategic transaction to ensure the continued funding of our operations, including corporate collaborations, merger and acquisition activities and consolidations; • our ability to identify and acquire potential drug candidates to sustain our drug pipeline portfolio; • our ability to obtain component materials and successfully enter into and maintain manufacturing relationships for our product candidates; • progress or results of any of our clinical trials; 10 Table of Contents • progress of regulatory approval of our product candidates and compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements; • market acceptance of our product candidates; • technological innovations, new commercial products or drug discovery efforts and preclinical and clinical activities by us or our competitors; • changes in government regulations; • general economic conditions and other external factors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • the degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and • our ability to meet the minimum standards required for remaining listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our business depends on successful outlicense and other collaborative arrangements. Our strategy requires us to enter into licenses or other alliances and also to make dispositions of products that have reached a certain level of clinical development. We may be unable to identify profitable applications for our product candidates or demonstrate the potential benefits of such candidates, and we are unable to predict whether our product candidates will be accepted by potential licensing partners or purchasers. We may not be able to continue licensing or other partnering arrangements, and any such arrangements, even if completed successfully, may not be on terms favorable to us, may not perform as expected, may result in unexpected liabilities and may never contribute significant revenues or cash flow. We depend to a significant extent on the expertise of and dedication of sufficient resources by our licensors, licensees and corporate partners to develop and commercialize products. Each individual licensor, licensee or corporate partner will control the amount and timing of resources devoted by it to these activities. Moreover, the success of any such licenses or other alliances depends in part upon such partners’ own marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative products and technologies being developed or marketed by such partners. Corporate partners may pursue alternative technologies or develop products that are competitive with our products. If any such partners are unsuccessful in developing or commercializing our product candidates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Disputes may arise between us and one or more of our collaborative partners regarding their respective rights and obligations under collaborative arrangements. In such an event, we may be required to initiate or defend expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings or to seek and attempt to reach agreement with another collaborative partner. We may not be able to resolve successfully a dispute with a collaborative partner or to enter into a satisfactory arrangement with a replacement collaborative partner. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. We currently have five full-time employees. The loss of one or more members of managerial or scientific staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain management, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer, and to attract additional key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and other research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. 11 Table of Contents Competition from other pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and other research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we have and have substantially greater experience in undertaking pre-clinical and clinical testing of products. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities and other research institutions. There can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to obtain patent protection on technologies and products and preserve trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or patents we are able to license will afford any competitive advantages or will not be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before any of our potential products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire, or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. While we take steps to protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, there can be no assurance that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, within the drug development industry, established companies have actively pursued such infringements, and have initiated such claims and litigation, which has made the entry of competitive products more difficult. We may experience such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. We could also become involved in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights that relate to our technologies. These disputes could arise out of collaboration relationships, strategic partnerships or other relationships. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our failure to prevail in any such legal proceedings, or even the mere occurrence of such legal proceedings, could substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. Government regulation of our business is extensive and drug approvals are uncertain, expensive and time-consuming. Our research, development, pre-clinical and clinical trials of most of our intended products are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and abroad. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals for drug and biological products, including required pre-clinical and clinical testing, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown products or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible criminal sanctions. 12 Table of Contents Due to resource constraints, currently we have only two drug candidates in development. A delay or setback in the clinical development of either of these candidates would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will always be strictly regulated by the federal and other governments, and there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with all applicable regulations. Clinical testing and manufacture of our proposed products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA, and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations or policies could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals or clearances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining such regulatory approvals. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any enforcement action by regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to authorize the marketing of new products and criminal prosecution. Even if our proposed products are approved for market, we will be subject to continuing regulation. We and our collaborative partners will continuously be subject to routine inspection by the FDA and will have to comply with the host of regulatory requirements that usually apply to pharmaceutical products marketed in the U.S., including labeling regulations, GMP requirements, adverse drug experience regulation and the FDA’s regulations regarding promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the testing or use of our drug candidates harms people, we could face costly and damaging product liability claims far in excess of our liability coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products, such as undesirable side effects or injury during clinical trials. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of drugs that we or our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these drugs by us or our potential collaborators may expose us to liability risks relating to these drugs. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we do not meet applicable listing rules, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ Capital Market imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards including minimum bid and public float requirements. If our common stock were delisted from NASDAQ, among other things, it could lead to a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 