ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections. These forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made elsewhere by management from time to time are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which are difficult to predict. The risks and uncertainties described below or incorporated herein by reference are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies. These risks should be considered carefully along with the other information contained or incorporated herein by reference. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We need to raise a significant amount of additional capital to continue our operations which capital may be costly and difficult to obtain, and if we are unable to raise additional capital, we would likely have to delay, curtail, scale back or terminate some or all of our operations, prematurely sell some or all of our assets, merge with or be acquired by another company, or possibly shut down our operations. We need to raise significant additional capital in order to meet our cash requirements to fully implement our business plan and continue our operations during the next twelve months. At December 31, 2013, we had $118,732 in cash and negative working capital of $16,598,286 and for the year ended December 31, 2013, we had a net loss of $3,417,205. We expect to use the funds raised, if any, to expand and accelerate our sales capabilities and research and development efforts, increase our manufacturing facilities, acquire complimentary technology, companies or personnel, hire additional personnel, implement additional corporate governance measures, attract independent board members and for other operating activities. We will, as we deem necessary and prudent, continue to seek to raise additional capital through various financing alternatives, including the private or public sale of equity or debt securities, bank financing or corporate partnering arrangements. We do not have any firm commitments for additional capital from third parties or from our officers, directors or shareholders. We are currently in litigation with La Jolla Cove Investors and do not expect any future financing under those agreements. Although our officers and directors or their affiliates have in the past provided us with or helped us obtain capital, they are not legally bound to do so. We may not be able to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. In order to attract new investors and raise additional capital, we may be forced to provide rights and preferences to new investors that are not available to current stockholders and that may be adverse to existing investors. If we do not receive adequate additional financing on terms satisfactory to us on a timely basis, or at all, we would not be able to meet our cash payment obligations or fully implement our business plan. We would likely also have to delay, curtail, scale back or terminate some or all of our operations that could hurt our future performance, prematurely sell some or all of our assets on undesirable terms, merge with or be acquired by another company on unsatisfactory terms, or possibly shut down our operations. 9 We have a history of operating losses that we anticipate will continue for the foreseeable future. We have a history of losses from operations and we anticipate that for the foreseeable future, we will continue to experience losses from operations. Those losses have resulted principally from costs incurred from general and administrative costs associated with our business and in research and development efforts. We had a net loss from operations of $2,733,084 the year ended December 31, 2013 and $4,541,587 during 2012. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2013 was $152,412,557. We expect to continue to incur net losses from operations for at least the next several quarters as we continue to develop and seek to commercialize our products. We have incurred substantial indebtedness and may be unable to service our debt. Our indebtedness at December 31, 2013 was $16,958,374. A portion of such indebtedness reflects judicial judgments against us that could result in liens being placed on our bank accounts or assets. We are continuing to review our ability to reduce this debt level due to the age and/or settlement of certain payables but we may not be able to do so. This level of indebtedness could, among other things: · make it difficult for us to make payments on this debt and other obligations; · make it difficult for us to obtain future financing; · require us to redirect significant amounts of cash from operations to servicing the debt; · require us to take measures such as the reduction in scale of our operations that might hurt our future performance in order to satisfy our debt obligations; and · make us more vulnerable to bankruptcy or an unwanted acquisition on terms unsatisfactory to us. Our independent auditors have issued a report stating that there is substantial doubt relating to our ability to continue as a going concern, which may impair our ability to raise additional financing. The report of our independent auditors contained in our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 explains that we have incurred substantial operating losses and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Analysts and investors view reports of independent auditors questioning a company’s ability to continue as a going concern unfavorably. This report may make it difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing necessary to continue our business operations and the development of our airships. Potential investors should review this report before making a decision to invest in the Company. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process. The development of LTA aerostats, UAS and mast-based ISR systems is a costly, complex and time-consuming process, and the investment in product development often involves a long wait until a return, if any, is achieved on such investment. We continue to make significant investments in research and development relating to our aerostats, airships, mast-based ISR systems, tethered powered aircraft and our other businesses. Investments in new technology and processes are inherently speculative. We also now rely on the UAS Ohio Consortium for the development of our Argus One airship. We have experienced numerous setbacks and delays in our research and development efforts and may encounter further obstacles in the course of the development of additional technologies and products. We may not be able to overcome these obstacles or may have to expend significant additional funds and time. Technical obstacles and challenges we encounter in our research and development process may result in delays in or abandonment of product commercialization, may substantially increase the costs of development, and may negatively affect our results of operations. Successful technical development of our products does not guarantee successful commercialization. We may successfully complete the technical development for one or all of our product development programs, but still fail to develop a commercially successful product for a number of reasons, including among others the following: · failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals for their use; · prohibitive production costs; · competing products; · lack of innovation of the product; · ineffective distribution and marketing; · lack of sufficient cooperation from our partners; and · demonstrations of the products not aligning with or meeting customer needs. 10 Although we have sold our BiB aerostat systems and various other aerostat and mast-based ISR systems and components, we have not yet sold any of our Argus One airships in the commercial marketplace. Our success in the market for the products we develop will depend largely on our ability to prove our products’ capabilities. Upon demonstration, our aerostats, airships and mast-based ISR systems may not have the capabilities they were designed to have or that we believed they would have. Furthermore, even if we do successfully demonstrate our products’ capabilities, potential customers may be more comfortable doing business with a larger, more established, more proven company than us. Moreover, competing products may prevent us from gaining wide market acceptance of our products. Significant revenue from new product investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Our potential customers are likely to be government or government-related entities that are subject to appropriations by Congress and reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs would likely adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. We anticipate that the majority of our revenue (for our aerostats, airships and GTC products other than various mast-based ISR systems and GTC website and Amazon storefront sales) at least in the foreseeable future will come from U.S. government and government-related entities, including both the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies. Government programs that we may seek to participate in and contracts for aerostats, LTA UAS or the construction of satellite ground stations must compete with other programs for consideration during Congress’ budget and appropriations hearings, and may be affected by changes not only in political power and appointments but also general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Reductions, extensions or terminations in a program that we are seeking to participate in or overall defense or other spending could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and realize any profits. We cannot predict whether potential changes in security, defense, communications and intelligence priorities will afford opportunities for our business in terms of research and development or product contracts, but any reduction in government spending on such programs could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. Some of our products are subject to significant governmental regulation including FAA regulations that currently prohibit us from performing any untethered flight testing of our UAS in commercial airspace until we receive a clearance certification from the FAA or a FAA Certificate of Waiver or Authorization which are difficult and time-consuming to obtain, and such regulations could significantly increase our research and development costs and could limit our ability to generate revenues. Some of our products are subject to regulation by the FAA, which currently does not allow any untethered flights by UAS in commercial airspace in the U.S. without prior FAA clearance certifications or a FAA Certificate of Waiver or Authorization (COA) that are difficult and time-consuming to obtain. Federal, state and local government entities must obtain an FAA COA before flying UAS in the Nation Air Space (NAS). The status of regulations regarding the testing, operations and safety of UAS is in flux. Depending on the ultimate rules adopted by the FAA, the cost to test and fly our products and our ability to generate revenues may be significantly adversely affected. International sales of our products may also be subject to U.S. laws, regulations and policies like the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and other export laws and regulations and may be subject to first obtaining licenses, clearances or authorizations from various regulatory entities. If we are not allowed to export our products or the clearance process is burdensome, our ability to generate revenue would be adversely affected. The failure to comply with any of these regulations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues as well as increasing our operating costs. We compete with companies that have significantly more resources than us and already have received government contracts for the development of Aerostats and UAS. A number of our competitors have received considerable funding from government or government-related sources to develop and build a mid- or high-altitude UAS and various aerostats. Most of these organizations and many of our other competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources and capabilities than we do. Our products will compete both with not only other tethered aerostats and LTA UAS, but also with heavier-than-air fixed wing aircraft, manned aircraft, communications satellites and balloons. We anticipate increasing competition as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. In addition, other companies may introduce competing aerostats, airships or solutions based on alternative technologies that may adversely affect our competitive position. As a result, our products may become less or non-competitive or obsolete. If we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we may fail to generate revenues and our financial condition would be adversely affected. We are subject to a number of lawsuits that could result in material judgments against us. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims and demands many related to the operation of the Company’s business by prior management. These matters are likely to divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. We intend to aggressively defend ourselves in these proceedings but no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or demands that cannot be predicted with certainty or potential settlements of such matters could adversely affect our business and financial condition, or could result in us having to issue freely tradable shares which could hurt our share price. Any claims and litigation, even if fully reserved or insured for, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to raise capital, secure contracts or to compete effectively. 11 We may pursue strategic transactions in the future, which could be difficult to implement, disrupt our business or change our business profile significantly. We will continue to consider potential strategic transactions, which could involve acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets, joint ventures or investments in businesses, products or technologies that expand, complement or otherwise relate to our current or future business. We may also consider, from time to time, opportunities to engage in joint ventures or other business collaborations with third parties to address particular market segments. These activities create risks such as among others: (i) the need to integrate and manage the businesses and products acquired with our own business and products, (ii) additional demands on our resources, systems, procedures and controls, (iii) disruption of our ongoing business, and (iv) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Moreover, these transactions could involve: (a) substantial investment of funds or financings by issuance of debt or equity securities; (b) substantial investment with respect to technology transfers and operational integration; and (c) the acquisition or disposition of product lines or businesses. Also, such activities could result in one-time charges and expenses and have the potential to either dilute the interests of existing shareholders or result in the issuance of, or assumption of debt. Such acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other business collaborations may involve significant commitments of financial and other resources of our company. Any such activity may not be successful in generating revenue, income or other returns to us, and the resources committed to such activities will not be available to us for other purposes. Moreover, if we are unable to access capital markets on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions, or may have to do so on the basis of a less than optimal capital structure. Our inability: (i) to take advantage of growth opportunities for our business or for our products, or (ii) to address risks associated with acquisitions or investments in businesses, may negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in an acquisition or in an investment, or charges to earnings associated with any acquisition or investment activity, may materially reduce our earnings. These future acquisitions or joint ventures may not result in their anticipated benefits and we may not be able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses, with our existing products and operations or combine personnel and cultures. Failure to do so could deprive us of the intended benefits of those acquisitions. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose our ability to compete in the marketplace. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our ability to remain competitive and for the success of our products and our business. Patent protection can be limited and not all intellectual property is or can be patented. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality agreements and procedures, non-compete agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, other proprietary rights and our brand. We have little protection when we must rely on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements. We filed a provisional patent application on our Argus One airship in February 2011. In February 2012 we filed both a U.S. utility patent application and a patent application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty for an airship design and method of controlling the airship based on our Argus One UAS. In May 2012 we filed a provisional patent, and in May 2013 we filed a U.S. utility patent application, for a self-powered releasable aerostat and for a method for releasing and controlling the aerostat. There is no assurance that a patent will issue from such applications. We intend to continue to expand the patent protection for our aerostats, airships and other products as we deem appropriate, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure any such patent protection. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees or competitors. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop technologies and products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies and/or products, which could result in decreased revenues. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs to us and substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use it to enhance their products. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and financial condition, and the value of our brand and other intangible assets. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, which could materially increase our costs and harm our ability to generate future revenue and profit. We do not believe our product technologies infringe the proprietary rights of any third party, but claims of infringement are becoming increasingly common and third parties may assert infringement claims against us. It may be difficult or impossible to identify, prior to receipt of notice from a third party, the trade secrets, patent position or other intellectual property rights of a third party, either in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions. Any such assertion may result in litigation or may require us to obtain a license for the intellectual property rights of third parties. If we are required to obtain licenses to use any third party technology, we would have to pay royalties, which may significantly reduce any profit on our products. In addition, any such litigation could be expensive and disruptive to our ability to generate revenue or enter into new market opportunities. If any of our products were found to infringe other parties’ proprietary rights and we are unable to come to terms regarding a license with such parties, we may be forced to modify our products to make them non-infringing or to cease production of such products altogether. The nature of our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by insurance or indemnity. We develop and sell products where insurance or indemnification may not be available, including: · Designing and developing products using advanced and unproven technologies and aerostats and airships in intelligence and homeland security applications that are intended to operate in high demand, high risk situations; and · Designing and developing products to collect, distribute and analyze various types of information. 12 Failure of certain of our products could result in loss of life or property damage. Certain products may raise questions with respect to issues of civil liberties, intellectual property, trespass, conversion and similar concepts, which may raise new legal issues. Indemnification to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed or deployed may be available in certain circumstances but not in others. We are not able to maintain insurance to protect against all operational risks and uncertainties. Substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our product, or liability arising from our products in excess of any indemnity or insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or was not obtained) could harm our financial condition, cash flows, and operating results. Any accident, even if fully covered or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to recruit and retain key management, technical and sales personnel, our business would be negatively affected. For our business to be successful, we need to attract and retain highly qualified technical, management and sales personnel. As of December 31, 2013, we together with our subsidiaries employed seven employees and we rely heavily on outside partners and contractors in certain areas. The failure to recruit additional key personnel when needed with specific qualifications and on acceptable terms or to retain good relationships with our partners might impede our ability to continue to develop, commercialize and sell our products. To the extent the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting and training costs in order to attract and retain such employees. The loss of any members of our management team may also delay or impair achievement of our business objectives and result in business disruptions due to the time needed for their replacements to be recruited and become familiar with our business. We face competition for qualified personnel from other companies with significantly more resources available to them and thus may not be able to attract the level of personnel needed for our business to succeed. The control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may until remedied cause errors in our financial statements or cause our filings with the SEC to not be timely. We have identified control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as of the evaluation done by management as of December 31, 2013, including those related to (i) an ineffective global control environment such that control deficiencies in various other components of internal control could lead the auditor to conclude that a significant deficiency or material weakness exists in the control environment, (ii) absent or inadequate segregation of duties within a significant account or process, (iii) inadequate documentation of the components of internal control, and (iv) inadequate design of information technology general and application controls that prevent the information system from providing complete and accurate information consistent with financial reporting objectives and current needs. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely made with the SEC. Based on the work undertaken and performed by us, however, we believe the consolidated financial statements contained in our reports filed with the SEC are fairly stated in all material respects in accordance with GAAP for each of the periods presented. We intend to implement additional corporate governance and control measures to strengthen our control environment as we are able, but we may not achieve our desired objectives. Moreover, no control environment, no matter how well designed and operated, can prevent or detect all errors or fraud. We may identify material weaknesses and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future that may require remediation and could lead investors losing confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Risks Related To Ownership of Our Common Stock Market volatility and fluctuations in our stock price and trading volume may cause sudden decreases in the value of an investment in our common stock. The market for our common stock is illiquid and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · limited numbers of buyers and sellers in the market; · investors wanting to place large sale or buy orders in a particular day; · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · our ability or inability to generate new revenues; · the development of our products; and · increased competition or technological innovations or new products by competitors. The market price of our common stock has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has ranged from between $0.0075 to $0.32 since January 1, 2010. In addition to the extremely volatile nature of the stock market, our stock price has been affected by our own public announcements regarding such things as financings and product development. Furthermore, our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance which include among others individual stockholder market transactions, stock market fluctuations, general economic, political and overall global market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations, in addition to market conditions in our industry. Consequently, events both within and beyond our control may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. 13 Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our shares. As of March 21, 2014, we had 710 registered stockholders and many more beneficial holders, most of whom have held their shares for the required holding periods under Rule 144 promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act and thus would hold freely tradable shares. The shares issued pursuant to conversions under our convertible debenture are freely tradable; 50 million shares were registered with the SEC and any additional shares are freely tradable pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, and such selling stockholder is not subject to a lock-up agreement. If such shares are sold, or if it is perceived they will be sold, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Because investors may be more reluctant to purchase shares of our common stock following substantial sales or issuances, the resale of these shares of common stock could impair our ability to raise capital in the near term. There are a large number of shares underlying our convertible debenture and equity investment agreement and issuance of shares upon conversion of the convertible debenture and exercise of the rights in the equity investment agreement may cause immediate and substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. There are a large number of shares that may be issued pursuant to our convertible debenture and equity investment agreement. The issuance of shares upon conversion of the convertible debenture and purchase of shares under the equity investment agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other stockholders since the selling stockholder may ultimately convert and sell the full amount issuable on conversion. Although the selling stockholder may not convert its convertible debenture if such conversion would cause them to own more than 4.99% of our outstanding common stock, this restriction does not prevent the selling stockholder from converting some of their holdings and then converting the rest of their holdings. In this way, the selling stockholder could sell more than this limit while never holding more than this limit. While the status of these agreements and the issuance of any additional shares remains uncertain pending our litigation with La Jolla Cove Investors, any outcome of such litigation negative to our interests could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. If we are required for any reason to repay our outstanding convertible debenture, we would be required to deplete our working capital, if available, or raise additional funds. Our failure to repay the convertible debenture for any reason, if required, could result in legal action against us, which could require the sale of substantial assets or the curtailment of some or all of our operations. In February 2012, we issued a convertible debenture that is due and payable, with 4 3/4% interest, three years from the date of issuance, unless sooner converted into shares of our common stock. In addition, any event of default could require the early repayment of the convertible debenture at a price equal to 110% of the amount due under the debenture. If we were required to repay the convertible debenture for any reason, whether as a result of the current litigation with La Jolla Cove Investors or otherwise, we would be required to use our limited working capital and raise additional funds. If we were unable to repay the debenture, the debenture holder could commence legal action against us and foreclose on our assets to recover the amounts due. Any such action would likely require us to curtail some or all of our operations. While the status of these agreements and the repayment of the debenture remains uncertain pending our litigation with La Jolla Cove Investors, any outcome of such litigation negative to our interests could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Future equity or convertible debenture financings will result in additional dilution of the ownership interest of our existing investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our operations. Historically the primary source of the additional capital we have raised has been equity and convertible debentures, and we expect that equity-related instruments will continue to be a source of additional capital. Any future equity or convertible debenture financings will dilute the ownership interest of our existing investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We have authorized preferred stock that can be designated by our board of directors without shareholder approval. We have authorized 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each of which shall have distinctive designation or title as shall be determined by our board of directors prior to the issuance of any shares thereof. The preferred stock shall have such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as adopted by our board of directors. Because our board of directors is able to designate the powers and preferences of the preferred stock without the vote of the holders of our common stock, the holders of our common stock will have no control over what designations and preferences our preferred stock will have. As a result of this, our board of directors could designate one or more series of preferred stock with superior rights to the rights of the holders of our common stock. 14 Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: · the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of, and to issue new, series of preferred stock; · advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors; · the ability of the board of directors to fix the number of directors and fill any vacancies or newly created directorships; · a classified board of directors; · Limitations on the removal of directors; · limitations on stockholders’ ability to call a special meeting of stockholders; and · special voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of our bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and certain provisions of Delaware law, may singularly and/or collectively make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you may not receive income from your investment. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. Investors may face significant restrictions on the resale of our common stock due to federal regulations of penny stock. Our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9, promulgated under the Exchange Act, as long as the price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share. Under such rule, broker-dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock. Generally, the SEC defines a penny stock as any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The required penny stock disclosures include the delivery, prior to any transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. In addition, various state securities laws impose restrictions on transferring penny stocks. Furthermore, certain brokers or on-line trading houses may not accept our common stock for brokerage accounts at their firms. Such requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our securities and the ability of purchasers to sell our securities in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 