ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There have been a number of material developments both within the Company and the long-term care industry. These developments have had and are likely to continue to have a material impact on us. This section summarizes these developments, as well as other risks that should be considered by our shareholders and prospective investors. We are substantially self-insured and have significant potential professional liability exposure. The provision of health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. Participants in the health care industry are subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Like many other companies engaged in the long-term care profession in the United States, we have numerous pending liability claims, disputes and legal actions for professional liability and other related issues. We expect to continue to be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of our business. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further descriptions of pending claims and see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition — Accounting Policies and Judgments — Professional Liability and Other Self-Insurance Reserves” for discussion of our reserve for self-insured claims and of our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs. For the last several years, due to our past claims experience and increasing cost of claims throughout the long-term care industry, the premiums we paid for professional liability and other liability insurance exceeded the coverage purchased so that it cost more than $1 10 Table of Contents to purchase $1 of insurance coverage. For this reason, effective March 9, 2001, we purchased professional liability insurance coverage for our facilities that, based on historical claims experience, was likely to be substantially less than the claims we expect to incur. We have exhausted all of our insurance coverage for claims asserted prior to March 10, 2007. For claims made during the period from March 10, 2007 through March 9, 2010, the Company maintains insurance with coverage limits of $100,000 per medical incident and total annual aggregate policy coverage limits of $500,000. As of December 31, 2008, payments already made by the insurance provider for the period from March 10, 2007 through March 9, 2009 have reduced the remaining aggregate coverage amount in the policy period, but coverage has not been exhausted. We have had substantial downward adjustments to our accrual for professional liability claims which has caused significant increases in our net earnings. In the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded downward adjustments in our accrual for self-insured risks associated with professional liability claims. While these adjustments to the accrual resulted in decreases to reported expenses and corresponding increases to income, they did not generate cash because the accrual is not funded. These self-insurance reserves are assessed on a quarterly basis, with changes in estimated losses being recorded in the consolidated statements of operations in the period identified. Any increase in the accrual decreases income in the period, and any reduction in the accrual increases income during the period. Our actual liabilities may vary significantly from the accrual, and the amount of the accrual has and may continue to fluctuate by a material amount in any given quarter. Each change in the amount of this accrual will directly affect our reported earnings and financial position for the period in which the change in accrual is made. No assurance can be given that the accrual will decline during 2009, and it may increase during this period. Our outstanding indebtedness is subject to various financial covenants and floating rates of interest which could be subject to fluctuations based on changing interest rates. We have $32.4 million of indebtedness at December 31, 2008. All of our indebtedness is floating rate debt, which is at variable rates of interest and exposes us to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates associated with variable rate borrowings. If interest rates increase, there is potential that our debt service obligations would increase even though the amount borrowed would decrease or remain the same. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various financial covenants, the most restrictive of which relate to cash flow, net income (loss), liquidity and limits on the payment of dividends to shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of some or all of our debts. Such non-compliance could result in a material adverse impact to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional discussion of our covenants as well as modifications to these covenants during 2008. We are highly dependent on reimbursement by third-party payors. Substantially all of our nursing center revenues are directly or indirectly dependent upon reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and private insurers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our patient revenues from continuing operations derived from Medicaid, Medicare and private pay (including private insurers) sources were approximately 53.3%, 31.5%, and 15.2%, respectively. Changes in the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid and private pay categories and among different types of private pay sources may affect our net revenues and profitability. Our net revenues and profitability are also affected by the continuing efforts of all payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. Efforts to impose reduced payments, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue. The Federal Government makes frequent changes to the reimbursement provided under the Medicare program. These changes could reduce significantly the reimbursement we receive. Also, a number of state governments, including several of the states in which we operate, have announced projected budget shortfalls and/or deficit spending situations. Possible actions by these states include reductions of Medicaid reimbursement to providers such as us or the failure to increase Medicaid reimbursements to cover increased operating costs. Any changes in reimbursement levels or in the timing of payments under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, net income and cash flows. We are unable to predict what reform proposals or reimbursement limitations will be adopted in the future or the effect such changes will have on our operations. No assurance can be given that such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation and Reimbursement.” 11 Table of Contents We are subject to significant government regulation. The health care industry is subject to numerous laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government health care program participation requirements, reimbursement for patient services, quality of resident care and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. Various federal and state laws regulate relationships among providers of services, including employment or service contracts and investment relationships. The operation of long-term care centers and the provision of services are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, equipment, personnel, operating policies, environmental compliance, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire prevention and compliance with building codes. Long-term care facilities are subject to periodic inspection to assure continued compliance with various standards and licensing requirements under state law, as well as with Medicare and Medicaid conditions of participation. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect our growth and could prevent us from offering our existing or additional services. In addition, health care is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws can have a significant effect on methods and costs of doing business and amounts of payments received from governmental and other payors. Our operations could be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory developments such as mandatory increases in the scope and quality of care to be afforded patients and revisions in licensing and certification standards. We attempt at all times to comply with all applicable laws; however, there can be no assurance that new legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation of existing laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Future federal budget legislation, federal or state regulatory actions seeking to impose fines and penalties, and federal and state regulatory changes may negatively impact us. See “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation.” See also “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The health care industry has been the subject of increased regulatory scrutiny recently. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), the enforcement arm of the Medicare program, formulates a formal work plan each year for nursing homes. The OIG’s most recent work plan indicates that compliance with minimum data set reporting, payments for psychotherapy services, calculation of benefit days, the use of antipsychotic drugs, accuracy of coding resource utilization groups (“RUGs”), the medical necessity of services billed and consolidated billing will be an investigative focus in 2009. We cannot predict the likelihood, scope or outcome of any such investigations on our facilities. We are subject to claims under the self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. In the United States, various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers of health care services, physicians, and other clinicians. These self-referral laws impose restrictions on physician referrals for designated health services to entities with which they have financial relationships. These laws also prohibit the offering, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of Medicare or state health care program patients or patient care opportunities for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service that is covered by the Medicare and Medicaid programs. To the extent that we, any of our facilities with which we do business, or any of the owners or directors have a financial relationship with each other or with other health care entities providing services to long-term care patients, such relationships could be subject to increased scrutiny. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be subject to review, scrutiny, penalties or enforcement actions under these laws, or that these laws will not change in the future. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Such exclusion or penalties, if applied to us, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive. The long-term care industry generally, and the nursing home business particularly, is highly competitive. We face direct competition for the acquisition of facilities. In turn, our facilities face competition for employees and patients. Some of our present and potential competitors are significantly larger and have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we can. Some hospitals that provide long-term care services are also a potential source of competition. In addition, we may encounter substantial competition from new market entrants. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could limit our ability to attract patients or expand our business, and could materially and adversely affect our business or decrease our market share. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve occupancy and increase profitability of the operations of the facilities acquired in August 2007 from Senior Management Services, our profits will continue to be lower than the profits generated prior to completion of that acquisition. During the second and third quarters of 2008, the facilities we acquired in August 2007 from Senior Management Services incurred losses from continuing operations before taxes. If we do not improve the occupancy, occupancy mix and profitability of these acquired facilities, their financial performance will continue to negatively affect our overall performance and will continue to reduce our profits as compared to the profits generated prior to the completion of that acquisition. If we are unable to complete construction of the Paris, Texas replacement facility in a timely manner and at our budgeted costs, and if we are unable to develop the necessary census and payor mix as projected, we will not realize the anticipated potential benefits from the project and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The completion of the construction of the Paris, Texas replacement facility will require that we complete construction in a timely manner and at budgeted costs. The total cost of the replacement facility is expected to be approximately $7.9 million. Construction costs in excess of $7.9 million will be borne by us and if the building is not ready to be operated at July 31, 2009, we will be required to pay rent on a building not in use. Successful construction will depend on our ability to supervise construction such that the building is ready for use substantially on time and that construction costs are substantially within the amounts budgeted. Our ability to develop the necessary census and payor mix to justify the increased rent associated with the new building will require that we maintain our existing census as well as increase our current market share among new residents, especially the more desirable payor types. Difficulties could include delayed or more costly construction than was anticipated, increased demands on our management, financial, technical and other resources, a decline in census or a less than desired increase in census, an unsatisfactory mix of resident payor sources and unanticipated cost increases. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully complete the project, we will not realize the anticipated potential benefits from the project and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have a number of policies in place that could be considered anti-takeover protections. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Plan”). In August 2008, our board of directors (“Board”) amended the Plan to extend the expiration date of the Plan to August 2, 2018 and increase the exercise price of the rights under the Plan to $50 from $15. The Plan is intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and to discourage coercive, discriminatory and unfair proposals. Our Certificate of Incorporation (the “Certificate”) provides for the classification of our Board into three classes, with each class of directors serving staggered terms of three years. Our Certificate requires the approval of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares to amend certain provisions of the Certificate. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law restricts the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in any business combination with an interested shareholder. We are also authorized to issue up to 795,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which may be fixed by our Board without shareholder approval. Provisions in certain of our executive officers’ employment agreements provide for post-termination compensation, including payment of amounts up to 2.5 times their annual salary, following certain changes in control (as defined in such agreements). Our stock incentive plans provide for the acceleration of the vesting of options in the event of certain changes in control (as defined in such plans). Certain changes in control also constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. The foregoing matters may, together or separately, have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of the company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 