ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There have been a number of material developments both within the Company and the long-term care industry. These developments have had and are likely to continue to have a material impact on us. This section summarizes these developments, as well as other risks, that should be considered by our shareholders and prospective investors. We are substantially self-insured and have significant potential professional liability exposure. The provision of health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. Participants in the health care industry are subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging malpractice, product liability, or related legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. The entire long-term care profession in the United States has experienced a dramatic increase in claims related to alleged negligence in providing care to its patients and we are no exception in this regard. We have numerous pending liability claims, disputes and legal actions for professional liability and other related issues. We expect to continue to be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of our business. See “Item 1. Business – Professional Liability and Other Liability Insurance.” for a more detailed discussion of our professional liability insurance. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” for further descriptions of pending claims, and see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” for discussion of our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs. 18 Table of Contents Due to our past claims experience and increasing cost of claims throughout the long-term care industry, the premiums we pay for professional liability and other liability insurance to cover future periods exceeds the coverage purchased so that it costs more than $1 to purchase $1 of insurance coverage. For this reason, effective March 9, 2001, we have purchased professional liability insurance coverage for our facilities that, based on historical claims experience, is likely to be substantially less than the claims we expect to incur. As a result, we are effectively self-insured and expect to remain so for the foreseeable future. See “Item 1. Business – Professional Liability and Other Liability Insurance.” We have significant deferred tax assets which we may not be able to realize. We have net deferred tax assets of $13.9 million included in our balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Our ability to realize these deferred tax assets depends on our future taxable income. We reported taxable income for 2004 and expect to do so for 2005 when our tax returns are filed. While the sale of certain assets included in discontinued operations will result in a taxable loss in the year of sale (expected to be 2006), we expect remaining operations will continue to result in taxable income that will allow these deferred tax assets to be realized. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to generate taxable income in future periods or realize these deferred tax assets. We have had substantial adjustments to our accrual for professional liability claims which has caused significant fluctuations in our earnings or losses. In the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we recorded downward adjustments in our accrual for self-insured risks associated with professional liability claims. While these adjustments to the accrual resulted in reported income, they did not generate cash because the accrual is not funded. These self-insurance reserves are assessed on a quarterly basis, with changes in estimated losses being recorded in the consolidated statements of operations in the period identified. Any increase in the accrual decreases income in the period, and any reduction in the accrual increases income during the period. Our actual liabilities may vary significantly from the accrual, and the amount of the accrual has and may continue to fluctuate by a material amount in any given quarter. Each change in the amount of this accrual will directly affect our reported earnings and financial position for the period in which the change in accrual is made. No assurance can be given that the accrual will decline during 2006, and it may increase during this period We have significant current debt maturities and are not in compliance with certain of our financial covenants. We have $31.5 million of scheduled debt maturities in 2006. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various financial covenants, the most restrictive of which relate to cash flow, net income (loss), and limits on the payment of dividends to shareholders. As of December 31, 2005, we were not in compliance with certain of these financial covenants. We have not obtained waivers of the non-compliance. Cross-default or material adverse change provisions contained in the debt agreements allow the holders of debt totaling approximately $46.3 million to demand immediate repayment. We would not be able to repay this indebtedness if the applicable lenders demanded repayment. Although we do not anticipate that such demands will be made, the continued forbearance on the part of our lenders cannot be assured at this time. As 19 Table of Contents a result of these debt maturities and defaults, we have classified $47.4 million of debt as current liabilities. Accordingly, we have a working capital deficit of $40.0 million as of December 31, 2005. The failure to close the pending sale of our assisted living facilities in North Carolina could adversely affect our ability to repay or restructure our secured debt. Any demands for repayment by lenders or the inability to obtain waivers or refinance the related debt would have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Financial Resources.” We have cross-default provisions under certain of our debt agreements and leases, which could lead to additional defaults. As noted above, as of December 31, 2005, we not in compliance with certain of our debt covenants. An event of default under our debt agreements could lead to actions by the lenders that could result in an event of default under our lease agreements with Omega covering a majority of our nursing facilities. The Omega Master Lease also provides that a default with respect to one facility is a default with respect to all facilities leased from Omega. In addition, certain of our debt agreements provide that a default under any of our leases constitutes a default under the debt agreements. We are highly dependent on reimbursement by third-party payors. Substantially all of our nursing center revenues are directly or indirectly dependent upon reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and private insurers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our patient revenues from continuing operations derived from Medicaid, Medicare and private pay (including private insurers) sources were approximately 58.0%, 30.0%, and 12.0%, respectively. Changes in the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid and private pay categories and among different types of private pay sources may affect our net revenues and profitability. Our net revenues and profitability are also affected by the continuing efforts of all payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. Efforts to impose reduced payments, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue. The federal Government makes frequent changes to the reimbursement provided under the Medicare program. These changes could reduce significantly the reimbursement we receive. Also, a number of state governments, including several of states in which we operate, have announced projected budget shortfalls and/or deficit spending situations. In addition, the President’s proposed budget calls for a significant reduction in the amount of Federal funds provided to the state Medicaid systems. Possible actions by these states include reductions of Medicaid reimbursement to providers such as us or the failure to increase Medicaid reimbursements to cover increased operating costs. Any changes in reimbursement levels or in the timing of payments under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, net income and cash flows. We are unable to predict what reform proposals or reimbursement limitations will be adopted in the future or the effect such changes will have on our operations. No assurance can be given that such reforms will not 20 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1. Business – Government Regulation and Reimbursement.” We are subject to significant government regulation. The health care industry is subject to numerous laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government health care program participation requirements, reimbursement for patient services, quality of resident care and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. Various federal and state laws regulate relationships among providers of services, including employment or service contracts and investment relationships. The operation of long-term care centers and the provision of services are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, equipment, personnel, operating policies, environmental compliance, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire prevention and compliance with building codes. Long-term care facilities are also subject to periodic inspection to assure continued compliance with various standards and licensing requirements under state law, as well as with Medicare and Medicaid conditions of participation. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect our growth and could prevent us from offering our existing or additional services. In addition, health care is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws can have a significant effect on methods and costs of doing business and amounts of payments received from governmental and other payors. Our operations could be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory developments such as mandatory increases in the scope and quality of care to be afforded patients and revisions in licensing and certification standards. We attempt at all times to comply with all applicable laws; however, there can be no assurance that new legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation of existing laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Changes in these laws and regulations, such as reimbursement policies of Medicare and Medicaid programs as a result of budget cuts by federal and state governments or other legislative and regulatory actions, have had a material adverse effect on the profession and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Future federal budget legislation, federal or state regulatory actions seeking to impose fines and penalties, and federal and state regulatory changes may negatively impact us. See “Item 1. Business – Government Regulation.” The health care industry has been the subject of increased regulatory scrutiny recently. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), the enforcement arm of the Medicare program, formulates a formal work plan each year for nursing homes. The OIG’s most recent work plan indicates that access to care, quality of care, survey deficiencies, compliance with minimum data set reporting, resident assessment and care planning, and the medical necessity of services billed will be an investigative focus in 2006. We cannot predict the likelihood, scope or outcome of any such investigations on our facilities. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to claims under the self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. In the United States, various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers of health care services, physicians, and other clinicians. These self-referral laws impose restrictions on physician referrals for designated health services to entities with which they have financial relationships. These laws also prohibit the offering, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of Medicare or state health care program patients or patient care opportunities for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service that is covered by the Medicare and Medicaid programs. To the extent that we, any of our facilities with which we do business, or any of the owners or directors have a financial relationship with each other or with other health care entities providing services to long-term care patients, such relationships could be subject to increased scrutiny. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be subject to review, scrutiny, penalties or enforcement actions under these laws, or that these laws will not change in the future. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Such exclusion or penalties, if applied to us, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our stock has limited liquidity. During 1999, the New York Stock Exchange de-listed our common stock. Trading of our common stock is currently conducted on the over-the-counter market (“OTC”) or, on application by broker-dealers, in the NASD’s Electronic Bulletin Board using our current trading symbol, AVCA. As a result of the de-listing, the liquidity of our common stock and its price have been adversely affected, which may limit our ability to raise additional capital. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive. The long-term care industry generally, and the nursing home business particularly, is highly competitive. We face direct competition for the acquisition of facilities. In turn, our facilities face competition for employees, patients and residents. Some of our present and potential competitors are significantly larger and have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we can. Some hospitals that provide long-term care services are also a potential source of competition. In addition, we may encounter substantial competition from new market entrants. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could limit our ability to attract patients or residents or expand our business, and could materially and adversely affect our business or decrease our market share. We have a number of policies in place that could be considered anti-takeover protections. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan (the “Plan”). In March 2005, the Board of Directors amended the Plan to extend the expiration date of the Plan to March 20, 2010 and change the exercise price of the rights under the Plan to $15. The Plan is intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and to discourage coercive, discriminatory and unfair proposals. Our Certificate of Incorporation (the “Certificate”) provides for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes, with each class of directors serving 22 Table of Contents staggered terms of three years. Our Certificate requires the approval of two-thirds of the outstanding shares to amend certain provisions of the Certificate. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law restricts the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in any business combination with an interested shareholder. We are also authorized to issue up to 400,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which may be fixed by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval. In November 2000, we issued 393,658 shares of our Series B Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock to Omega in connection with a restructuring of the Omega Master Lease. Provisions in certain of our executive officers’ employment agreements provide for post-termination compensation, including payment of amounts up to 2.5 times their annual salary, following certain changes in control. Our stock incentive plans provide for the acceleration of the vesting of options in the event of certain changes in control (as defined in such plans). Certain changes in control also constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. The foregoing matters may, together or separately, have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 