ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There have been a number of material developments both within the Company and the long-term care industry. These developments have had and are likely to continue to have a material impact on us. This section summarizes these developments, as well as other risks that should be considered by our shareholders and prospective investors.We are substantially self-insured and have significant potential professional liability exposure.The provision of health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. Participants in the health care industry are subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging malpractice, negligence, product liability or related legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Like many other companies engaged in the long-term care profession in the United States, we have numerous pending liability claims, disputes and legal actions for professional liability and other related issues. We expect to continue to be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of our business. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further descriptions of pending claims and see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition - Accounting Policies and Judgments - Professional Liability and Other Self-Insurance Reserves” for discussion of our reserve for self-insured claims and of our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs.For claims made after March 9, 2001, we have purchased professional liability insurance coverage for our nursing centers that, based on historical claims experience, is likely to be substantially less than the amount required to satisfy claims that are expected to be incurred. We have essentially exhausted all of our insurance coverage for claims first asserted prior to July 1, 2011. We have seen an increase in the number of suits filed in professional liability matters and have had substantial adjustments to our accrual for professional liability claims which has caused significant changes in our net earnings.In recent periods we have seen an increase in the number of suits filed for professional liability matters. Each year, we record adjustments to our accrual for self-insured risks associated with professional liability claims. While these adjustments to the accrual result in changes to reported expenses and income, they are not directly related to changes in cash because the accrual is not funded. These self-insurance reserves are assessed on a quarterly basis, with changes in estimated losses being recorded in the consolidated statements of operations in the period identified. Any increase in the accrual decreases income in the period, and any reduction in the accrual increases income during the period. Our actual professional liabilities may vary significantly from the accrual, and the amount of the accrual has and may continue to fluctuate by a material amount in any given quarter. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded professional liability expense of $12.0 million, $10.5 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Our outstanding indebtedness is subject to various financial covenants and floating rates of interest which could be subject to fluctuations based on changing interest rates.We have long-term indebtedness of $29.5 million at December 31, 2012. Certain of our debt agreements contain various financial covenants, the most restrictive of which relate to minimum cash deposits, cash flow and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of some or all of our debts. Such non-compliance could result in a material adverse impact to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional discussion of our covenants. In connection with the refinancing transaction in March 2011 discussed in “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources,” we entered into an interest rate swap with respect to a mortgage loan to mitigate the floating interest rate risk of such borrowing. The interest rate swap converted the variable rate on our mortgage indebtedness to a fixed interest rate for the five year term of this indebtedness, decreasing our exposure to risks of variable rates of interest. While limiting our risk to increases in interest rates by utilizing the interest rate swap, we forgo 13benefits that might result from downward fluctuations in interest rates. We also are exposed to the risk that our counterpart to the swap agreement will default on its obligations. We are highly dependent on reimbursement by third-party payors. Substantially all of our nursing center revenues are directly or indirectly dependent upon reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and private insurers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our patient revenues from continuing operations derived from Medicaid, Medicare, Managed Care and private pay (including private insurers) sources were approximately 52.2%, 30.8%, 4.7%, and 12.3%, respectively. Changes in the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid, Managed Care and private pay categories and among different types of private pay sources may affect our net revenues and profitability. Our net revenues and profitability are also affected by the continuing efforts of all payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. Efforts to impose reduced payments, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue.The Federal Government makes frequent changes to the reimbursement provided under the Medicare program and future changes could significantly reduce the reimbursement we receive. Also, a number of state governments, including several of the states in which we operate, have announced projected budget shortfalls and/or deficit spending situations. Possible actions by these states include reductions of Medicaid reimbursement to providers such as us or the failure to increase Medicaid reimbursements to cover increased operating costs, or implementation of alternatives to long-term care, such as community and home-based services.Any changes in reimbursement levels or in the timing of payments under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, net income (loss) and cash flows. We are unable to predict what reform proposals or reimbursement limitations will be adopted in the future or the effect such changes will have on our operations. We are limited in our ability to reduce the direct costs of providing care when decreases in reimbursement rates are imposed. No assurance can be given that such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1. Business - Government Regulation and Reimbursement.”We are subject to significant government regulation. The health care industry is subject to numerous laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government health care program participation requirements, reimbursement for patient services, quality of patient care and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. Various federal and state laws regulate relationships among providers of services, including employment or service contracts and investment relationships. The operation of long-term care centers and the provision of services are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, equipment, personnel, operating policies, environmental compliance, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire prevention and compliance with building codes.Long-term care facilities are subject to periodic inspection to assure continued compliance with various standards and licensing requirements under state law, as well as with Medicare and Medicaid conditions of participation. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect our growth and could prevent us from offering our existing or additional services. In addition, health care is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws can have a significant effect on methods and costs of doing business and amounts of payments received from governmental and other payors. Our operations could be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory developments such as mandatory increases in the scope and quality of care to be afforded patients and revisions in licensing and certification standards. We attempt at all times to comply with all applicable laws; however, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations or that new legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation of existing laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Federal or state proceedings seeking to impose fines and penalties for violations of applicable laws and regulations, as well as federal and state changes in these laws and regulations may negatively impact us. See “Item 1. Business - Government Regulation.” See also “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”The health care industry has been the subject of increased regulatory scrutiny recently. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), the enforcement arm of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, formulates a formal work plan each year for nursing centers. The OIG's most recent work plan indicates that quality of care, assessment and monitoring, poorly performing nursing facilities, hospitalizations, criminal background checks, Medicare part B services, accuracy of nursing 14facilities Minimum Data, transparency of ownership, and civil monetary penalty funds will be an investigative focus in 2013. We cannot predict the likelihood, scope or outcome of any such investigations on our facilities.We are subject to claims under the self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. In the United States, various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers of health care services, physicians, and other clinicians. These self-referral laws impose restrictions on physician referrals for designated health services to entities with which they have financial relationships. These laws also prohibit the offering, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of Medicare or state health care program patients or patient care opportunities for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service that is covered by the Medicare and Medicaid programs. To the extent that we, any of our facilities with which we do business, or any of the owners or directors have a financial relationship with each other or with other health care entities providing services to long-term care patients, such relationships could be subject to increased scrutiny. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be subject to review, scrutiny, penalties or enforcement actions under these laws, or that these laws will not change in the future. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Such exclusion or penalties, if applied to us, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.We operate in an industry that is highly competitive. The long-term care industry generally, and the nursing home business particularly, is highly competitive. We face direct competition for the acquisition of facilities. In turn, our facilities face competition for employees and patients. Our ability to compete is based on several factors and include, but are not limited to building age, appearance, reputation, relationships with referral sources, availability of patients, survey history and CMS rankings. Some of our present and potential competitors are significantly larger and have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we can. Some hospitals that provide long-term care services are also a potential source of competition. In addition, we may encounter substantial competition from new market entrants. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could limit our ability to attract patients or expand our business, and could materially and adversely affect our business or decrease our market share. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition.In recent years, there have been initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the availability, payment and reimbursement of healthcare services in the United States. In March 2010, significant legislation concerning health care and health insurance was passed which will significantly change the future of health care in the United States. If the reforms are phased in over the next ten years as currently enacted, they may significantly increase our costs to provide employee health insurance and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. It is also expected that this new legislation will impact our operations and reimbursement from Federal programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as private insurance. The timing and ultimate level of that impact is currently unknown as we anticipate that many of the provisions of such legislation may be subject to further clarification and modification through the rule making process.Investing in our business initiatives and development could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We plan to invest in business initiatives and development that will increase our operating expenses for the next one or two years. These initiatives may or may not be successful in growing our census or revenues. There is typically a time delay between incurring such expenses and the attaining of revenues and cash flows expected from these initiatives and development. As a result, our revenue and operating cash flow may not increase enough during a reporting period to cover these increased expenses. Such additional revenues may not materialize at the level we anticipate, if at all.Our ability and intent to pay cash dividends in the future may be limited.We currently pay a $0.055 quarterly dividend on our common shares and while the Board of Directors intends to pay quarterly dividends, the Board will make the determination of the amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be declared and paid based on, among other things, our financial condition, funds from operations, the level of our capital expenditures and future business prospects. The Company is restricted by its debt agreements in its ability to pay dividends.15We have a number of policies in place that could be considered anti-takeover protections.We have adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Plan”). On August 14, 2009, our board of directors (“Board”) amended the Plan to change the definition of “Acquiring Person” to be such person that acquires 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock of the Company, up from the 15% that previously defined an acquiring person. The Plan is intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and to discourage coercive, discriminatory and unfair proposals. Our Certificate of Incorporation (the “Certificate”) provides for the classification of our Board into three classes, with each class of directors serving staggered terms of three years. Our Certificate requires the approval of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares to amend certain provisions of the Certificate. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law restricts the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in any business combination with an interested shareholder. We are also authorized to issue up to 795,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which may be fixed by our Board without shareholder approval. Provisions in certain of our executive officers' employment agreements provide for post-termination compensation, including payment of amounts up to two times their annual salary, following certain changes in control (as defined in such agreements). Our stock incentive plans provide for the acceleration of the vesting of options in the event of certain changes in control (as defined in such plans). Certain changes in control also constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. The foregoing matters may, together or separately, have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of the company.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 