ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There have been a number of material developments both within the Company and the long-term care industry. These developments have had and are likely to continue to have a material impact on us. This section summarizes these developments, as well as other risks that should be considered by our shareholders and prospective investors. We are substantially self-insured and have significant potential professional liability exposure. The provision of health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. Participants in the health care industry are subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Like many other companies engaged in the long-term care profession in the United States, we have numerous pending liability claims, disputes and legal actions for professional liability and other related issues. We expect to continue to be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of our business. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further descriptions of pending claims and see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition — Accounting Policies and Judgments — Professional Liability and Other Self-Insurance Reserves” for discussion of our reserve for self-insured claims and of our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs. For the last several years, due to our past claims experience and increasing cost of claims throughout the long-term care industry, the premiums we paid for professional liability and other liability insurance exceeded the coverage purchased so that it cost more than $1 to purchase $1 of insurance coverage. For this reason, effective March 9, 2001, we purchased professional liability insurance coverage for our facilities that, based on historical claims experience, was likely to be substantially less than the claims we expect to incur. We have exhausted all of our insurance coverage for claims asserted prior to March 10, 2009. For claims made during the period from March 10, 2009 through May 31, 2010, the Company maintains insurance with coverage limits of $250,000 per medical incident and total annual aggregate policy coverage limits of $750,000. We have had substantial adjustments to our accrual for professional liability claims which has caused significant changes in our net earnings. Each year, we record adjustments to our accrual for self-insured risks associated with professional liability claims. While these adjustments to the accrual result in changes to reported expenses and income, they are not directly related to changes in cash because the accrual is not funded. These self-insurance reserves are assessed on a quarterly basis, with changes in estimated losses being 11 Table of Contents recorded in the consolidated statements of operations in the period identified. Any increase in the accrual decreases income in the period, and any reduction in the accrual increases income during the period. Our actual liabilities may vary significantly from the accrual, and the amount of the accrual has and may continue to fluctuate by a material amount in any given quarter. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded professional liability expense of $9.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively. In 2007, we recorded benefit from professional liability of $1.7 million. No assurance can be given that the accrual will decline during 2010, and it may increase during this period as it did in 2009. Our outstanding indebtedness is subject to various financial covenants and floating rates of interest which could be subject to fluctuations based on changing interest rates. We have $24.8 million of indebtedness at December 31, 2009. All of our indebtedness is floating rate debt, which is at variable rates of interest and exposes us to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates associated with variable rate borrowings. If interest rates increase, there is potential that our debt service obligations would increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various financial covenants, the most restrictive of which relate to cash flow census and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of some or all of our debts. Such non-compliance could result in a material adverse impact to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional discussion of our covenants as well as modifications to these covenants. We are currently seeking a replacement of our debt financing, and new financing may have less favorable terms than our current debt financing. Our current mortgage, term loan and revolving credit borrowing arrangements will become due and payable by their terms and will need to be refinanced. Our mortgage loan matures in August 2012, our term loan matures in August 2011 and our revolving credit facility expires in August 2010. Our existing borrowing arrangements were entered into in 2006 and 2007, and we believe that we have interest rate terms that are less than current market terms. Based on current lending conditions, no assurances can be given that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms as favorable as current terms. We are highly dependent on reimbursement by third-party payors. Substantially all of our nursing center revenues are directly or indirectly dependent upon reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and private insurers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our patient revenues from continuing operations derived from Medicaid, Medicare and private pay (including private insurers) sources were approximately 54.8%, 30.0%, and 15.2%, respectively. Changes in the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid and private pay categories and among different types of private pay sources may affect our net revenues and profitability. Our net revenues and profitability are also affected by the continuing efforts of all payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. Efforts to impose reduced payments, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue. The Federal Government makes frequent changes to the reimbursement provided under the Medicare program, including the 3.3% reduction effective October 1, 2009 discussed in Item 1. “Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement”. Future changes could significantly reduce the reimbursement we receive. Also, a number of state governments, including several of the states in which we operate, have announced projected budget shortfalls and/or deficit spending situations. Possible actions by these states include reductions of Medicaid reimbursement to providers such as us or the failure to increase Medicaid reimbursements to cover increased operating costs, or implementation of alternatives to long-term care, such as community and home-based services. Any changes in reimbursement levels or in the timing of payments under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, net income and cash flows. We are unable to predict what reform proposals or reimbursement limitations will be adopted in the future or the effect such changes will have on our operations. We are limited in our ability to reduce the direct costs of providing care when decreases in reimbursement rates are imposed. No assurance can be given that such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation and Reimbursement.” We are subject to significant government regulation. The health care industry is subject to numerous laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government health care program participation requirements, reimbursement for patient services, quality of resident care and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. Various federal and state laws regulate relationships among providers of services, including employment or service contracts and 12 Table of Contents investment relationships. The operation of long-term care centers and the provision of services are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, equipment, personnel, operating policies, environmental compliance, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire prevention and compliance with building codes. Long-term care facilities are subject to periodic inspection to assure continued compliance with various standards and licensing requirements under state law, as well as with Medicare and Medicaid conditions of participation. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect our growth and could prevent us from offering our existing or additional services. In addition, health care is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws can have a significant effect on methods and costs of doing business and amounts of payments received from governmental and other payors. Our operations could be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory developments such as mandatory increases in the scope and quality of care to be afforded patients and revisions in licensing and certification standards. We attempt at all times to comply with all applicable laws; however, there can be no assurance that new legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation of existing laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Future federal budget legislation, federal or state regulatory actions seeking to impose fines and penalties, and federal and state regulatory changes may negatively impact us. See “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation.” See also “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The health care industry has been the subject of increased regulatory scrutiny recently. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), the enforcement arm of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, formulates a formal work plan each year for nursing homes. The OIG’s most recent work plan indicates that compliance with quality care, emergency preparedness and evacuations during natural disasters, criminal background checks, transparency of ownership, accuracy of coding resource utilization groups (“RUGs”), the medical necessity of services billed and consolidated billing will be an investigative focus in 2010. We cannot predict the likelihood, scope or outcome of any such investigations on our facilities. We are subject to claims under the self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. In the United States, various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers of health care services, physicians, and other clinicians. These self-referral laws impose restrictions on physician referrals for designated health services to entities with which they have financial relationships. These laws also prohibit the offering, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of Medicare or state health care program patients or patient care opportunities for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service that is covered by the Medicare and Medicaid programs. To the extent that we, any of our facilities with which we do business, or any of the owners or directors have a financial relationship with each other or with other health care entities providing services to long-term care patients, such relationships could be subject to increased scrutiny. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be subject to review, scrutiny, penalties or enforcement actions under these laws, or that these laws will not change in the future. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Such exclusion or penalties, if applied to us, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive. The long-term care industry generally, and the nursing home business particularly, is highly competitive. We face direct competition for the acquisition of facilities. In turn, our facilities face competition for employees and patients. Our ability to compete is based on several factors and include, but are not limited to building age, appearance, reputation, relationships with referral sources, availability of patients, survey history and CMS rankings. Some of our present and potential competitors are significantly larger and have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we can. Some hospitals that provide long-term care services are also a potential source of competition. In addition, we may encounter substantial competition from new market entrants. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could limit our ability to attract patients or expand our business, and could materially and adversely affect our business or decrease our market share. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. In recent years, there have been initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the availability, payment and reimbursement of healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives include proposals to significantly change federal and state healthcare reimbursement to provide comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under governmental funded programs or proposals for minor modifications to existing programs. The ultimate content or timing of any future healthcare reform legislation, and its impact on us, is impossible to predict. If significant reforms are made to the U.S. healthcare system, the reforms 13 Table of Contents may increase our costs to provide care as well as reduce amounts reimbursed to us for providing care to our patients, thus having an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability and intent to pay cash dividends in the future may be limited. We currently pay a $0.05 quarterly dividend on our common shares and while the Board of Directors intends to pay quarterly dividends, the Board will make the determination of the amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be declared and paid based on, among other things, our financial condition, funds from operations, the level of our capital expenditures and future business prospects. We have a number of policies in place that could be considered anti-takeover protections. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Plan”). On August 14, 2009, our board of directors (“Board”) amended the Plan to change the definition of “Acquiring Person” to be such person that acquires 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock of the Company, up from the 15% that previously defined an acquiring person. The Plan is intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and to discourage coercive, discriminatory and unfair proposals. Our Certificate of Incorporation (the “Certificate”) provides for the classification of our Board into three classes, with each class of directors serving staggered terms of three years. Our Certificate requires the approval of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares to amend certain provisions of the Certificate. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law restricts the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in any business combination with an interested shareholder. We are also authorized to issue up to 795,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which may be fixed by our Board without shareholder approval. Provisions in certain of our executive officers’ employment agreements provide for post-termination compensation, including payment of amounts up to 2.5 times their annual salary, following certain changes in control (as defined in such agreements). Our stock incentive plans provide for the acceleration of the vesting of options in the event of certain changes in control (as defined in such plans). Certain changes in control also constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. The foregoing matters may, together or separately, have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of the company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 