Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report. If any of the identified risks actually occurs, or is adversely resolved, the Company’s consolidated financial statements could be materially, adversely impacted in a particular fiscal quarter or year and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially. As a result, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in the Company. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to continue profitably opening new stores due to general economic conditions or otherwise, our growth may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our growth has resulted and is expected to continue to result from the opening of new stores. The deterioration in the U.S. economic environment, the disruption and significant tightening in the U.S. credit and lending markets and reduced consumer spending have, among other things, slowed the development of new shopping malls and retail centers which restricted the Company’s ability to find suitable locations for new stores. The Company reduced the number of new store openings in fiscal year 2009 compared to previous years primarily due to the impact of the national economic crisis that occurred during late 2008 and early 2009, including but not limited to a resulting lack of quality real estate opportunities. The Company believes that quality real estate opportunities are beginning to open in the marketplace. While we expect to open more stores in fiscal year 2010 than in fiscal year 2009, further economic troubles could lead to adjustments to our expansion program in fiscal year 2010 and beyond. While we believe that we will continue to be able to obtain suitable locations for new stores, negotiate acceptable lease terms, hire qualified personnel and open and operate new stores on a timely and profitable basis, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these objectives. As we continue our expansion program, the proposed expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our financial performance. The opening of new stores may adversely affect catalog and Internet sales and profits. In addition, the opening of new stores in existing markets may adversely affect sales and profits of established stores in those markets. The results achieved by our existing stores may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of stores in other locations. We cannot assure you that any new store that we open will have similar operating results to those of prior stores. New stores commonly take up to five years to reach desired operating levels due to development typically associated with new stores such as growing the customer base, increasing brand awareness and the development of the store’s sales team. The failure of the existing or the new stores to perform as predicted could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to fund our expansion through use of existing cash, short-term investments and cash flows from operations. However, if we experience limitations on our ability to utilize these sources of liquidity, our performance declines or other factors so dictate, we may slow or discontinue store openings. If we fail to successfully implement our expansion program, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We face significant competition and may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or profitability. The retail apparel business is highly competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete primarily with specialty and discount store chains, independent retailers, national and local department stores, Internet retailers and other catalogers engaged in the retail sale of men’s apparel, and to a lesser degree with other apparel retailers. Many of these competitors are much larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In many cases, our primary competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls or retail centers as our stores. In order to better compete, we may need to increase the number of promotional sales, which could reduce our margins and affect our profitability. Moreover, in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls and retail centers. We believe that our emphasis on classic styles make our business less vulnerable to changes in merchandise trends than many apparel retailers; however, our sales and profitability depend upon the continued demand for our classic styles. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; • developing innovative, high-quality new products and/or product/brand extensions in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; • competitively pricing our products and achieving value for our customers; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. Increased competition or our failure to meet these competitive challenges could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is tied to consumer spending for discretionary items and negative changes to consumer confidence and other recessionary pressures brought on by, among other things, general economic conditions, could have an adverse affect on our business. Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions, consumer confidence and the levels of disposable consumer income which is impacted by consumer debt, interest rates, unemployment levels, reductions in net worth, residential real estate values, tight credit markets, taxation, gasoline and energy costs, among other factors. Consumer confidence also may be adversely affected by national and international security concerns such as war, terrorism or the threat of war or terrorism. In addition, because apparel and accessories generally are discretionary purchases, declines in consumer spending patterns may impact us more negatively as a specialty retailer and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing economic problems in the United States have resulted in a high unemployment rate, lower consumer confidence, shortages of consumer credit, recessionary pressures and overall slowing in the growth in the retail sector which may continue to be negatively affected for the foreseeable future. Consumer spending for higher value discretionary items generally declines faster than for other retail purchases during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. We cannot assure you that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets or any stimulus plans will have a positive impact on the current economic situation. If the current unfavorable economic conditions continue, consumer purchases of our merchandise could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Tight credit markets may have a negative effect on our business. Distress in the financial markets, such as the distress experienced by the United States economy since late 2008, may result in diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Although we currently do not have any borrowings under our credit facility, tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance any indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the Company’s securities. Our credit facility also has financial covenants which, if not met, may lead our lender to terminate the agreement. 11 Table of Contents Our immediate cash requirements, which fluctuate daily, are deposited at financial institutions and may exceed federally insured limits. If the financial environment causes these financial institutions to become unstable or fail, we may experience losses on these deposit accounts. Our cash investment strategies may have a negative effect on our business. At present, we invest most of our cash in money market accounts and overnight federally-sponsored agency notes and U.S. Treasury bills with original maturities of 90 days or less. Our short-term investments consist primarily of U.S. Treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. The returns on these investments effectively reflect current market interest rates. As a result, market interest rate changes may negatively impact our net interest income or expense. We may invest in other types of securities such as municipal or corporate debt instruments or other types of potentially higher yielding securities, the value of which could be negatively impacted by changing liquidity conditions, credit rating downgrades, changes in market interest rates or a deterioration of the underlying entities’ financial condition, among other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our excess cash/investments could decline and result in a material impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success is dependent on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the contributions of our senior management team. In addition, our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing merchandise trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other departments. We face intense competition in hiring and retaining these personnel. If we fail to retain and motivate our current personnel and attract new personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Also, the achievement of our expansion plans will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel as we expand. We rely heavily on a limited number of key suppliers, the loss of any of which could cause a significant disruption to our business and negatively affect our business. Historically, we have purchased a substantial portion of our products from a limited number of suppliers throughout the world. During fiscal year 2009, approximately 40% of the Company’s total product purchases were sourced through one agent and we expect to continue this relationship in 2010 and, perhaps beyond. The loss of this agent or any of the Company’s other key suppliers or any significant interruption in our product supply, such as manufacturing problems or shipping delays, could have an adverse effect on our business due to lost sales, cancellation charges, excessive markdowns or delays in finding alternative sources, and could result in increased costs. In addition, the current economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, liquidations and other unfavorable events for industry suppliers. Key vendors may also be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and flooding which could adversely impact their operations. These suppliers may not be able to overcome any such difficulties which could lead to interruptions in our product supply and could also lead to increases in the costs that we pay for our products as any surviving suppliers could be in better positions to increase their prices. Although we have not experienced any material disruptions in our sourcing in the past several years, any significant disruption of supply from any of these sources or supplier failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our reliance on foreign sources of production exposes us to a number of risks of doing business on an international basis. We expect to continue our sourcing from suppliers throughout the world, which may result in additional concentration of our sources. As a result, we face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including: • political instability of foreign countries; • imposition of new legislation or rules relating to imports that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries or regions; • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • local business practice and political issues, including strikes and other work stoppages and issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity; • migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced; • potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts, including delays or disruptions due to security considerations; • volatile fuel supplies and costs; and • the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the foreign currencies of our suppliers’ countries which could adversely affect our product costs. Any significant disruption of production from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if the foreign manufacturers of our products do not use acceptable labor practices. We require the third-party manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our staff and agents periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by these independent manufacturers could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us. The divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could damage our reputation, which may result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores, as well as purchasing through our catalogs and Internet site, and therefore could adversely affect our sales, net earnings, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by increased costs of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business. Our products are manufactured using several key raw materials, including wool and cotton, which are subject to fluctuations in price and availability. The prices for these raw materials can be volatile due to the demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic, climate and other unpredictable factors. We purchase the raw materials for approximately 11% of our finished products. Five vendors accounted for over 83% of the raw materials purchased directly by us in fiscal year 2009. The remainder of our finished products are purchased as finished units, with the vendor responsible for the acquisition of the raw materials. Some of these finished unit vendors purchase raw materials from the same suppliers as the Company. Changes in raw materials costs, such as wool and cotton, to the vendors or to us may impact the long-term cost of our finished products. Fuel costs and labor costs could also have an adverse impact on our vendors’ manufacturing costs and on our freight and other costs. Any significant fluctuations in price or availability of our raw materials and other resources or any significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to meet the changing preferences of our customers. We must successfully gauge merchandise trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. Our success is dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The retail clothing business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion, performance, luxury and seasonality. To the extent the market for our merchandise weakens, whether due to a decrease in demand resulting from the troubled economy or otherwise, sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the demand for tailored and casual clothing and accessories affect our inventory levels. As our business is becoming more seasonal in nature, we must purchase and carry a significant amount of inventory prior to peak selling seasons. We issue purchase orders for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing merchandise trends or consumer acceptance for our products. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the volume of traffic in the retail centers in which our stores are located and the availability of suitable lease space. Many of our stores are located in retail centers where sales are affected in part by the volume of customer traffic. Customer traffic may be adversely affected by the current economic environment and as a result we may experience reduced sales and store closings. In addition, a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment in a retail center, or a decline in the popularity of a retail center among our target consumers, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs that allow us to maintain our profitability. We cannot be sure as to when or whether desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. In addition, we must be able to renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our failure to secure favorable locations and lease terms initially, and upon renewal, could result in our loss of market share and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on third party delivery services exposes us to business interruptions and service issues that are beyond our control. Our success is impacted by the timely delivery of merchandise from our distribution facilities to our stores and customers. Third party transportation companies deliver substantially all of our merchandise to our stores and our customers. Some of these third parties employ union labor. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of any of these third parties could delay the timely delivery of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. We may be required to respond in a number of ways, many of which could decrease our gross profits and net income and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our dependence on our two distribution centers exposes us to the risk of a substantial disruption to our business. We concentrate the distribution of our products in two adjacent distribution centers located in Hampstead, Maryland. Substantially all of the merchandise that we purchase is shipped directly to these distribution centers, where the merchandise is prepared for shipment to our stores or our customers. If these distribution centers were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, such as due to fire or other catastrophic event or natural disaster, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. As a result, we could incur longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores and customers and significantly higher operating costs during the period prior to and after our reopening or replacing these distribution centers. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution centers or systems are shut down for any reason. These shut-downs could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by increased paper, printing and mailing costs. Increases in postal rates, paper costs or printing costs would affect the cost of producing and distributing our catalog and promotional mailings and sales and marketing expenses. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. The unavailability of these discounts, as well as increases in future paper, printing and postal costs could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to offset these increases by raising prices or by implementing more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or protect ourselves from the claims of third-parties may not be effective. Our trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. We are the owner or exclusive licensee in the United States of the marks JOS. A. BANK®, JOS. A. BANK V.I.P.®, JOS. A. BANK VACATION IN PARADISE®, VACATION IN PARADISE®, THE MIRACLE COLLECTION® and TRAVELERS CREASE ®, each of which is registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or other infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. The actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products alleged to be in violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to the marks that we license and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Our failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or protect ourselves from the claims of third parties could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to a number of risks involving the acceptance and processing of credit cards, the occurrence of which could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acceptance of credit cards at our stores and through our catalog and Internet channels necessarily involves the gathering and storage of sensitive, personal information regarding our customers. Although we believe our systems are sound, no system is completely invulnerable to attack or loss of data. A loss of data could subject us to financial and legal risks, as well as diminish our reputation and customer loyalty. Further, our continued ability to accept and process credit cards is dependent, in part, on our contractual relationships with our acquiring bank (i.e. the bank at which we maintain our account for collecting credit card payments from customers) and our credit card processor (i.e. the third party that submits on our behalf credit card transactions to our acquiring bank). Any disruption or change in these contractual relationships could interrupt our business or increase our costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks, or other risks associated with the acceptance and processing of credit cards, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a number of risks relating to the maintenance of our information systems and our use of consumer information. We rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. In addition, we are increasingly dependent on the Internet, which is the primary channel of our Direct Marketing segment, and centralized computer systems and networks to process and transmit transactions and to store electronic information. It is critical that we maintain uninterrupted access to and operation of these systems. These systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to interruption or damage from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, system capacity constraints, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and other natural disasters. If these systems cease to function properly or are damaged, we may suffer interruptions in our operations and we may be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace them. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. We maintain a customer database which is important to our marketing efforts. Any limitations imposed on the use of this consumer data, whether imposed by federal, state, or local governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activity. In addition, to the extent that our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to financial and legal risks, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand, in addition to the adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business has become increasingly dependent on promotional activity and a strong holiday season. Our net sales, net income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and therefore the results for one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. During the fourth quarters of fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009, we generated approximately 35%, 36% and 36%, respectively, of our annual net sales and approximately 53%, 52% and 50%, respectively, of our annual net income, which resulted, in part, from increased customer traffic during the holiday season and our increased marketing efforts during this peak selling time. Any decrease in the effectiveness of our increased promotional activity could adversely affect our sales. The current economic climate, including recessionary pressures, may cause such decreases to net sales. Any reduction in retail traffic in and around our store locations could also adversely affect our sales. Any decrease in sales or margins, especially during the fourth quarter, could have a disproportionate effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, major winter storms could negatively impact our sales and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will face a number of risks if we pursue growth by acquisitions or other strategic opportunities. We may from time to time hold discussions and negotiations regarding strategic opportunities, including with (i) potential investors who express an interest in making an investment in or acquiring us, (ii) potential joint venture partners looking toward the formation of strategic alliances and (iii) companies that represent potential acquisition or investment opportunities for us. We cannot assure you that any definitive agreement will be reached regarding the foregoing, nor do we believe that any such agreement is necessary to implement successfully our strategic plans. Pursuing growth by acquisitions or other strategic opportunities will expose us to the various risks that arise therefrom, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The following, among other factors, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate: • Our sales and profitability results and those of others in the retail industry; • Anticipation regarding our future operating results and those generally operating in the retail industry; and • Changes in earnings estimates by research analysts. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our common stock, as well as that of other companies, including our competitors, and which may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of these other companies. Our charter documents, our Rights Agreement and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, our Rights Agreement and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our Rights Agreement has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, this premium may not be realized or the market price of our common stock could decline. Rights of our stockholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which are authorized and available for issuance under our restated certificate of incorporation. After giving effect to the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock which are reserved for potential issuance pursuant to our Rights Agreement, we have available for issuance 50,000 shares of preferred stock, $1.00 par value per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of these 50,000 shares, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of stockholders. The rights of our stockholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. 16 Table of Contents Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and could divert our management’s attention and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are subject to various litigation and legal proceedings and claims, including those identified in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Although we intend to defend the identified matters vigorously, we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. Regardless of their merit, the legal matters may result in a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could be disruptive to our operations. In addition, costs and potential losses associated with these legal matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 