Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 36 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 36 Item 9B. Other Information 38 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 40 Item 11. Executive Compensation 41 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 41 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 41 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 41 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 42 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-1 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2010 and January 29, 2011 F-2 Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended January 31, 2009, January 30, 2010 and January 29, 2011 F-3 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended January 31, 2009, January 30, 2010 and January 29, 2011 F-4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity for the Years Ended January 31, 2009, January 30, 2010 and January 29, 2011 F-5 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-6 Signatures Exhibits Index Exhibit 10.2 Exhibit 10.3(e) Exhibit 10.5(c) Exhibit 10.6(e) Exhibit 10.8(g) Exhibit 10.10 Exhibit 10.11(d) Exhibit 21.1 Exhibit 23.1 Exhibit 31.1 Exhibit 31.2 Exhibit 32.1 Exhibit 32.2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 AND OTHER INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes and incorporates by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for certain forward-looking statements so long as such information is identified as forward-looking and is accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the information. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “will,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “may,” “believe,” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements and information. Actual results may differ materially from those forecast due to a variety of factors outside of the Company’s control that can affect the Company’s operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Such factors include risks associated with economic, weather, public health and other factors affecting consumer spending, including negative changes to consumer confidence and other recessionary pressures, higher energy and security costs, the successful implementation of the Company’s growth strategy, including the ability of the Company to finance its expansion plans, the mix and pricing of goods sold, the effectiveness and profitability of new concepts, the market price of key raw materials such as wool and cotton, seasonality, merchandise trends and changing consumer preferences, the effectiveness of the Company’s marketing programs, the availability of suitable lease sites for new stores, doing business on an international basis, the ability to source product from its global supplier base, legal matters and other competitive factors. The identified risk factors and other factors and risks that may affect the Company’s business or future financial results are detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, those described under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report. These cautionary statements qualify all of the forward-looking statements the Company makes herein. The Company cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for the Company or affect the Company, its business or its operations in the way the Company expects. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their respective dates. The Company does not undertake an obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in the Company’s assumptions, estimates or projections. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS. General Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Inc., a Delaware corporation organized on June 22, 1982 (herein referred to as the “Company,” “Jos. A. Bank,” “our company,” first person pronouns such as “we,” “us,” or “our,” or similar terms), is a nationwide designer, manufacturer, retailer and direct marketer (through stores, catalog and Internet) of men’s tailored and casual clothing and accessories and is a retailer of tuxedo rental products. The Company sells substantially all of its products exclusively under the Jos. A. Bank label through its 506 retail stores (as of January 29, 2011, which includes 12 Outlet and Factory stores and 14 Franchise stores) located throughout 42 states and the District of Columbia in the United States, as well as through the Company’s nationwide catalog and Internet (www.josbank.com) operations. The Company’s products are targeted at the male career professional and emphasize the Jos. A. Bank brand of high quality tailored and casual clothing and accessories. The Company’s products are offered at “Three Levels of Luxury,” which range from the original Jos. A. Bank Executive collection to the more luxurious Jos. A. Bank Signature collection to the exclusive Jos. A. Bank Signature Gold collection. The Company purchases the majority of its merchandise as finished product, with the manufacturer or supplier responsible for purchasing all components of the product, including fabric (also known as piece goods or raw 1 Table of Contents materials, although the Company may designate which components to use). The Company purchases certain of its merchandise (including almost all suit separates and top coats) on a cut, make and trim basis, whereby the Company supplies the piece goods. The Company sources substantially all of its merchandise from suppliers and manufacturers or through buying agents using Jos. A. Bank designs and specifications. The Company operates on a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. The following fiscal years ended (or will end) on the following dates and will be referred to herein by their fiscal year designations: Fiscal year 2004 January 29, 2005 Fiscal year 2005 January 28, 2006 Fiscal year 2006 February 3, 2007 Fiscal year 2007 February 2, 2008 Fiscal year 2008 January 31, 2009 Fiscal year 2009 January 30, 2010 Fiscal year 2010 January 29, 2011 Fiscal year 2011 January 28, 2012 Each fiscal year noted above consisted (or will consist) of 52 weeks except fiscal year 2006, which consisted of 53 weeks. Strategy The Company, established in 1905, has reinvented itself since 1999 by focusing on its “Four Pillars of Success,” which consist of: 1. Quality; 2. Service; 3. Inventory In-stock; and 4. Product Innovation. The Company instills these four factors into all aspects of its operation and believes they help create a unique specialty retail environment that develops customer loyalty. Examples of the Company’s commitment to this strategy include: • continually increasing the already high level of quality of its products by developing and maintaining stringent design and manufacturing specifications; • further developing its multi-channel retailing concept by opening more stores and enhancing direct selling through the catalog and Internet operations, thus offering multiple convenient channels for customers to shop; • providing outstanding customer service and emphasizing high levels of inventory fulfillment for its customers; • expanding its product assortment, including further developing the “Three Levels of Luxury” and continuing to add innovative new products; and • increasing its product design and development capabilities while eliminating middlemen in the sourcing of its products. The Brand. The Company’s branding emphasizes very high levels of quality in all aspects of its interactions with customers, including merchandise and service. The Company has developed very stringent specifications in its product designs to ensure consistency in the fit and quality of its products. The merchandise assortment has “Three Levels of Luxury” and one unwavering level of quality. The “Three Levels of Luxury” range from the original Jos. A. Bank Executive collection to the more luxurious Jos. A. Bank 2 Table of Contents Signature collection to the exclusive Jos. A. Bank Signature Gold collection. Examples of the different levels of luxury include a range of superfine qualities of wool used in suits, sport coats and slacks, and the uniqueness of tie swatches, some of which are offered in limited editions. The Company emphasizes customer service in all aspects of its business. Sales associates focus on developing close business relationships with their customers to help serve all of the customers’ clothing needs. Inventory availability is a key focus to ensure customers can purchase merchandise when requested, whether in the stores or through the Internet or catalog. A tailor is staffed in most stores to ensure prompt, high quality alteration service for our customers. Multi-Channel Retailing. The Company’s strategy is to operate its three sales channels as an integrated business and to provide the same personalized service to its customers regardless of whether merchandise is purchased through its stores, the Internet or catalog. The Company believes the synergy between its stores, its Internet site and its catalog offers an important convenience to its customers and a competitive advantage to the Company. The Company leverages its three sales channels by promoting these channels together to create brand awareness. For example, the Internet site can be used by our sales associates to increase the product available to store customers, provides store location listings and can be used as a promotional source for the stores and catalog. The Company also uses its catalog to communicate the Jos. A. Bank image, to provide customers with fashion guidance in coordinating outfits and to generate store and Internet traffic. As a customer convenience, customers may purchase, return or exchange in a store all products that are offered in the catalog and through the Internet. Store Growth. The Company had 506 stores as of fiscal year-end 2010, which included 480 Company-owned Full-line stores (as defined below under “Segments”), 12 Company-owned Outlet and Factory stores and 14 stores operated by franchisees. As a result of implementing its store growth plan, the Company opened 60 new stores in fiscal year 2004, 56 new stores in fiscal year 2005, 52 new stores in fiscal year 2006, 48 new stores in fiscal year 2007, 40 new stores in fiscal year 2008, 14 new stores in fiscal year 2009 and 36 new stores (including 30 Full-line stores, 5 Factory stores and 1 Franchise store) in fiscal year 2010. The Company intends to open new stores primarily in core markets which may allow the Company to leverage its existing advertising, management, distribution and sourcing infrastructure. The Company also intends to continue to open new stores in less mature markets such as western states, where it is developing a critical mass of stores to gain leverage. The Company plans to open approximately 40 to 50 stores in fiscal year 2011. In the future, the Company believes that it can grow the chain to approximately 600 Full-line stores and 50 to 75 Factory stores in the United States, depending on the performance of the Company over the next several years and the development of the Factory store concept, among other factors. Product Design and Sourcing. The Company designs and sets the specifications for substantially all of its products. The designs are provided to a world-wide vendor base which manufactures to the Company’s specifications. In certain cases, the Company has eliminated the middlemen (e.g. importers and resellers) in its sourcing process and contracts directly with its manufacturers. The Company used a buying agent through which it sourced approximately 51% of its total product purchases in fiscal year 2010 and expects to continue this relationship in fiscal year 2011. The Company’s product design and sourcing strategies have resulted in reduced product costs over the past ten years, which have enabled the Company to design additional quality into its products, increase gross profit margins over that period and fund the development of the infrastructure needed to grow the chain. Segments The Company has two reportable segments: Stores and Direct Marketing. The Stores segment consists of all Company-owned stores excluding Outlet and Factory stores (“Full-line stores”). The Direct Marketing segment consists of our Internet and catalog operations. The Company has included information with regard to these segments for each of its last three fiscal years in Note 12 to its Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Table of Contents Stores. The Company’s Stores segment consists of its 480 Full-line stores. The Company opened 30 Full-line stores (and closed three stores) in fiscal year 2010 and plans to open approximately 35 to 40 Full-line stores and to close one or more Full-line stores in fiscal year 2011. The Company’s real estate strategy focuses primarily on stores located in high-end, specialty retail centers with the proper co-tenancy that attract customers with demographics that are similar to the Company’s target customer. These specialty centers include, but are not limited to, outdoor lifestyle centers, malls and downtown/street front/business districts. As of fiscal year-end 2010, the store mix of the 480 Full-line stores consisted of 167 outdoor lifestyle centers, 81 malls, 55 downtown/street front/business districts and 177 strip centers, power centers or freestanding stores. The Company’s current store prototype was introduced in March 2001 in Charlottesville, Virginia and has been continually improved. The design emphasizes an open shopping experience that coordinates the Company’s successful corporate casual and sportswear with its suits, shirts, ties and other products. The store design is based on the use of wooden fixtures, numerous tables to feature fashion merchandise, carpet and abundant accent lighting and is intended to promote a pleasant and comfortable shopping environment. Approximately 80% of the space in stores that were opened in the last three fiscal years is dedicated to selling activities, with the remainder allocated to stockroom, tailoring and other support areas. The Full-line stores averaged approximately 4,640 square feet at fiscal year-end 2010. The Full-line stores opened in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 averaged approximately 4,040 and 4,200 square feet, respectively. The cost to open a new store is based primarily on store size and landlord construction allowances. In fiscal year 2010, the average build-out cost for a new Full-line store was approximately $435,000, including leasehold improvements, fixtures, point-of-sale equipment and tailor shop equipment. The Company expects to be reimbursed by landlords an average of approximately $125,000 of the new store build-out cost for these Full-line stores opened in fiscal year 2010. New stores also require an inventory investment, which varies based on the season in which the store opens. Although amounts vary, in fiscal year 2010, new Full-line store openings required an average initial investment of approximately $285,000. The inventory levels in a new store are typically increased as the store’s sales grow. Substantially all Full-line stores have a tailor shop, which provides a range of tailoring services as a convenience to customers. The stores are designed to utilize Company-owned regional tailor shops which allow the use of smaller tailor shops within each store. These regional facilities receive customers’ goods from Full-line stores, which are altered and returned to the selling store for customer pickup. In addition, the store managers and certain additional store staff have been trained to fit tailored clothing for alterations. The Company guarantees all of the tailoring work performed. The Company launched a tuxedo rental initiative in January 2010 on a test basis in approximately 5% of its Full-line stores and rolled out the tuxedo rental business to substantially all of the stores by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. The Company has contracted with a national distributor that owns the tuxedo inventory and delivers the orders to the Company’s stores. 4 Table of Contents At January 29, 2011, the Company had 506 retail stores (consisting of 480 Full-line stores, 12 Outlet and Factory stores and 14 Franchise stores) in 42 states and the District of Columbia. The following table sets forth the stores that were open at that date. JOS. A. BANK STORES Total # State of Stores Alabama(a)(b) 13 Arizona 5 Arkansas 4 California 31 Colorado 9 Connecticut 14 Delaware 1 Florida 35 Georgia(a)(b) 22 Idaho 1 Illinois(a) 29 Indiana 9 Iowa 3 Kansas 3 Kentucky 5 Louisiana(a) 6 Maryland(b) 21 Massachusetts 16 Michigan 13 Minnesota 7 Mississippi(a) 3 Missouri 8 Nebraska 2 Nevada 3 New Hampshire 2 New Jersey(b) 29 New Mexico 1 New York(b) 21 North Carolina(a) 21 Ohio 22 Oklahoma 4 Pennsylvania(b) 27 Rhode Island 2 South Carolina(a) 11 South Dakota 1 Tennessee(a) 12 Texas(b) 48 Utah 2 Virginia(b) 25 Washington 3 Washington, D.C. 5 West Virginia 1 Wisconsin 6 Total 506 (a) Includes one or more Franchise store(s) (b) Includes one or more Outlet or Factory store(s) Direct Marketing. The Company’s Direct Marketing segment, consisting of its Internet and catalog channels, is a key part of the Company’s multi-channel concept. This segment is driven primarily by the Internet channel as the catalog channel has declined over time with the increasing popularity of the Internet. In fiscal year 2010, the Direct Marketing segment accounted for approximately 10% of the Company’s net sales and recorded a sales increase of 24.4%. The Company’s Direct Marketing segment offers potential and existing customers convenience in ordering the Company’s merchandise. In fiscal years 2009 and 2010, the Company distributed approximately 9.2 million and 9.6 million catalogs, respectively. The Internet site and the catalog offer potential and existing customers an easy way to order the full range of Jos. A. Bank products. They are significant resources used to communicate the Company’s high-quality image, provide customers with guidance in coordinating outfits, generate store traffic and provide useful market data on customers. The Company believes customers are very confident purchasing traditional business attire through our Internet site and catalog, as suits represented approximately 25% of sales in the Direct Marketing segment in fiscal year 2010. 5 Table of Contents To make catalog and online shopping as convenient as possible, the Company maintains a toll-free telephone number accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Catalog sales associates can help customers select merchandise and can provide detailed information regarding size, color, fit and other merchandise features. In some cases, sample merchandise is available for catalog sales associates to view, thereby allowing them to better assist customers. Merchandise purchased from the catalog or online may be returned to the Company through any of its stores or by mail. The Company upgraded its existing Internet infrastructure during fiscal year 2009 to meet increasing capacity needs and to add certain features to further enhance the customer shopping experience. The new Internet site, which was launched in October 2009, has many customer-friendly features such as larger images, product photos with zoom-in functionality that allows fine details to be seen, plus advanced product search functionality, such as searching by size, that makes shopping more efficient. In addition, the site accepts new forms of payment such as Paypal and Bill Me Later. Customers may request to have their orders shipped to an address of their choice or to any JoS. A. Bank store for convenient pick up. The new site also supports many of the creative promotional and sale events that were previously offered only in the Company’s Full-line stores. The site has enabled the Company to be responsive to trends thereby affording the Company an opportunity to increase sales. During fiscal year 2010, the Company launched a new website dedicated exclusively to the products offered under its Big and Tall customer category. As part of this new website, the Company expanded its product offerings to add or broaden such items as suits and suit separates including portly sizes, dress shirts, extra long ties and sportshirts. The Company expects to continue to expand the Big and Tall product assortment in fiscal year 2011. Also, during fiscal year 2010, the Company launched a new website dedicated to the products offered under its new Factory store concept. In addition to expanding the Company’s overall product offerings over the Internet channel, these new websites further leverage the e-commerce platform the Company developed and implemented in fiscal year 2009. The Company has experienced strong growth in its Internet sales over the past five fiscal years. To help drive Internet traffic, the Company affiliates with other Internet companies. These affiliates link potential customers from their web platforms to the Company’s websites where the customer may ultimately make a purchase. The Company typically pays a fee to these affiliates based on a percentage of net sales generated by them. As a result of an analysis performed by the Company in fiscal year 2010, the Company eliminated approximately one-third of its under-performing affiliates and reduced its total number of affiliates from approximately 3,100 at the end of fiscal year 2009 to approximately 2,100 at the end of fiscal year 2010. Despite this decrease, Internet sales significantly increased during fiscal year 2010. The Company expects to continue to pursue affiliate arrangements to help fuel future Internet sales increases. To process catalog orders, sales associates enter orders online into a computerized catalog order entry system, while Internet orders are placed by the customer and are linked to the same order entry system. After an order is placed, it updates files and permits the Company to measure the response to individual catalog mailings and Internet email promotions. Computer processing of orders is performed by the warehouse management system which permits orderly picking of inventory from the warehouses. The Company’s order entry and fulfillment systems permit the shipment of most orders no later than the day after the order is placed (assuming the merchandise is in stock). Orders are shipped primarily by ground delivery to arrive at a customer’s home in two to five business days or, if requested, by expedited delivery services, typically using United Parcel Service as the delivery company. Sales and inventory information is available to the Company’s merchants the day after the sales transaction. Corporate and Other. In addition to the corporate office and the distribution centers, the Company’s “Corporate and Other” segment consists of 14 Franchise locations and 12 Outlet and Factory stores. Generally, a franchise agreement between the Company and the franchisee provides for a ten-year term with an option, exercisable by the franchisee under certain circumstances, to extend the term for an additional ten-year period. Franchisees pay the Company an initial fixed franchise fee and then a percentage of its net sales. Franchisees are required to maintain and protect the Company’s reputation for high quality, classic clothing and customer service. Generally, the franchisees have the rights within certain geographical territories to operate stores, 6 Table of Contents which prohibits the Company from opening stores within these territories without first giving the franchisees the right of first refusal. The Company opened 1 new Franchise store in fiscal year 2010 and does not expect to open a significant number of Franchise stores in the future. Franchisees purchase substantially all merchandise offered for sale in their stores from the Company at an amount above the Company’s cost. Prior to fiscal year 2010, the Company had 7 Outlet stores which served to liquidate excess merchandise and offer certain first quality products at a reduced price. During fiscal year 2010, the Company launched a new Factory store concept initiative to target a unique customer base that it believes has limited overlap with the customer base in our Full-line stores. The Company opened 5 stores under the new Factory store concept in fiscal year 2010 to test the initiative. New merchandise offerings were developed that cater to this customer’s needs. Additionally certain of these product offerings were also introduced into the pre-2010 Outlet stores. The results achieved by the 5 stores opened in fiscal year 2010 met the Company’s expectations, and as a result, the Company plans to open an additional 10 to 12 Factory stores in fiscal year 2011. Also, the Company expects, over time, to convert the 7 pre-2010 Outlet stores to Factory stores. If the stores opened/operated under this new initiative continue to perform to the Company’s expectations, it believes there is a long-term opportunity to operate 50 to 75 Factory stores in the U.S. Merchandising The Company believes it fills a niche of providing upscale classic, professional men’s clothing with superior quality at a reasonable price. The Company’s merchandising strategy focuses on achieving an updated classic look with extreme attention to detail in quality materials and workmanship. The Company offers a distinctive collection of clothing and accessories necessary to dress the career man from head to toe, including formal, business and business casual, as well as sportswear and golf apparel, substantially all of which is sold under the Jos. A. Bank label. Its product offerings include tuxedos, suits, shirts, vests, ties, sportcoats, pants, sportswear, overcoats, sweaters, belts and braces, socks and underwear, among other items. The Company also sells branded shoes from several vendors, representing approximately 3% of total net sales, which are substantially the only products it sells not using the Jos. A. Bank brand. The Company’s branding emphasizes very high levels of quality in all aspects of its interactions with customers, including merchandise and service. The Company has developed very stringent specifications in its product designs to ensure consistency in the fit and quality of the product. The merchandise assortment has “Three Levels of Luxury” and one unwavering level of quality. The “Three Levels of Luxury” range from the Company’s original Jos. A. Bank Executive collection, to the more luxurious Jos. A. Bank Signature collection to the exclusive Jos. A. Bank Signature Gold collection. An example of the different levels of luxury includes a range of superfine qualities of wool used in suits, sport coats and slacks. The Company believes its merchandise offering is well positioned to meet the changing trends of business dress for its target customers. Suits accounted for approximately 30% of the Company’s merchandise sales in fiscal year 2010, and serve as the foundation of the Company’s extensive offering of other products. As the corporate work environment trended to casual over the past decade, the Company’s product offerings were modified to meet the needs of the Jos. A. Bank customer. The Company has many unique products to serve its customers’ needs and believes that continued development of innovative products is one of its “Four Pillars of Success.” For example, the Company offers its Separates collection, a concept for purchasing suits that allows customers to customize their suits by selecting separate, but perfectly matched, jackets and pants from one of three coat styles, plain front or pleated pants, and numerous updated fabric choices including superfine wool and natural stretch wool. The Separates line allows a customer to buy a suit that will fit his unique body size with minimum alterations, for a custom fit. Jos. A. Bank is one of the few retailers in the country that has successfully developed this concept in better quality suits, which the Company believes is a competitive advantage. The Company also has a very successful line of wrinkle resistant, all cotton dress shirts and sportshirts and in fiscal year 2007 introduced the slimmer cut “Tailored Fit” model to its dress shirt offering. The Company offers its Vacation-in-Paradise (“VIP”) line of casual vacation wear and its David Leadbetter golf apparel, which includes sportshirts, sweaters and casual trousers, in its sportswear category. 7 Table of Contents In fiscal year 2004, the Company introduced a wrinkle resistant, stain resistant traveler cotton pique polo shirt and machine washable traveler wool pants, as part of its successful “Traveler” collection of products. In late fiscal year 2004, it introduced a wrinkle resistant, stain-resistant suit as part of its Separates Collection. The Traveler Suit Separates program is designed to take advantage of our expertise in suit separates with perfectly matched suit coats and pants sold in the customer’s size for a better fit. The 100% wool Traveler Suit Separates are stain resistant and made with stretch comfort waist bands and stretch linings and include extra interior pockets. In fiscal year 2007, the Company also added a selection of wrinkle and stain resistant cashmere sweaters to its line of Traveler products. During fiscal year 2010, the Company further expanded its Traveler collection with the introduction of a Tailored Fit suit product which offers customers a narrower, more stylish fit. In fiscal year 2005, the Company introduced the “Stays Cool” suit, which features innovative fabrics and linings using a variety of technologies to keep the customer cool and comfortable in a warm climate. The Company has continued to add products using the “Stays Cool” features during the past several years. In fiscal year 2010, the Company introduced the “Classic” collection, a line of products developed exclusively for its new Factory stores. This line of products emphasizes traditional, classic styling at a superior value to the Factory store customer. Also in fiscal year 2010, with the launch of its new Big and Tall website, the Company further expanded its Big and Tall product offerings to add or broaden such items as suits and suit separates including portly sizes, dress shirts, extra long ties and sportshirts. Prior to fiscal year 2010, the Company had certain limited Big and Tall product offerings which included dress shirts and tailored clothing such as suits and suit separates, sportcoats, dress pants and formalwear. Because of the classic character of the Company’s merchandise and aggressive store clearance promotions, historically, the Company has been able to sell substantially all of its products through its Full-line stores, catalog, Internet site and Outlet and Factory stores and has not been required to sell significant amounts of inventory to third-party liquidators. Design and Purchasing Jos. A. Bank merchandise is designed through the coordinated efforts of the Company’s merchandising and planning staffs, working in conjunction with suppliers, manufacturers and buying agents around the world. The process of creating a new garment begins up to 18 months before the product’s expected in-stock date. Substantially all products are made to the Company’s rigorous specifications, thus ensuring consistent fit and feel for the customer. The merchandising staff oversees the development of each product’s style, color and fabrication. The Company’s planning staff is responsible for providing each channel of business with the correct amount of products. The Company believes that it gains an advantage over many of its competitors in terms of quality and price by designing its tailored and other products, selecting and, in certain cases, purchasing raw materials (finished wool fabric) and then having merchandise manufactured to its own specifications by third party contract manufacturers. Since the Company’s designs are focused on updated classic clothing, the Company believes it experiences much less fashion risk than other retailers that offer fashions that change more frequently. Substantially all products manufactured must conform to the Company’s rigorous specifications with respect to standardized sizing and quality. Approximately 3% of the total product purchases (including piece goods) in fiscal year 2010 were sourced from United States suppliers, and approximately 97% were sourced from suppliers in other countries. In fiscal year 2010, approximately 37% of the total product purchases were from suppliers in China (including Hong Kong), 24% in Mexico, 9% in Bangladesh, 7% in Sri Lanka and 7% in India. Of the remaining 13% of total purchases, no other country represented more than 5% of total product purchases in fiscal year 2010. These percentages reflect the countries where the suppliers are primarily operating or manufacturing, which may not always be where the suppliers are actually domiciled. 8 Table of Contents The Company uses a buying agent to source a significant portion of its products from various companies that are located in or near Asia (China, including Hong Kong, Indonesia, India, Malaysia, Thailand, and Bangladesh). Purchases through this buying agent represented approximately 51% of the total product purchases in fiscal year 2010. The Company also makes other purchases from manufacturers and suppliers in Asia. Two other suppliers combined represented approximately 19% of total product purchases in fiscal year 2010. The Company buys its shirts from leading U.S. and overseas shirt manufacturers who also supply shirts to many of the Company’s competitors. The total product purchases discussed above include direct purchases of raw materials by the Company that are subsequently sent to manufacturers for cutting and sewing. The Company purchases the raw materials for approximately 9% of its finished products, of which five vendors accounted for over 72% of the raw materials purchased directly by the Company in fiscal year 2010. The remainder of its finished products are purchased as finished units, with the vendor responsible for the acquisition of the raw materials based on the Company’s specifications. The Company transacts substantially all of its business on an order-by-order basis and does not maintain any long-term or exclusive contracts, commitments or arrangements to purchase from any finished goods supplier, piece goods vendor or contract manufacturer. The Company ordinarily places orders for the purchase of inventory approximately 6 to 12 months in advance. The Company has not experienced any significant difficulties as a result of any foreign political, economic or social instabilities. The Company believes that it has good relationships with its piece goods vendors, finished goods suppliers, contract manufacturers and buying agents and that there will be adequate sources to produce a sufficient supply of quality goods in a timely manner and on satisfactory economic terms, but it cannot make any assurances of such results. The Company does business with all of its vendors in U.S. currency. As a result, the Company is affected by the value of the U.S. dollar against the foreign currencies of its suppliers’ countries. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks through aggressive price negotiation and resourcing. A devaluation of the U.S. dollar against these currencies may impact the Company’s results as an increase in the cost of goods sold. Marketing, Advertising and Promotion Strategy. The Company has historically used mass media advertising (such as local radio, national cable television and direct mail marketing) and promotional activities in support of its store and catalog/Internet operations. The Company also sends email promotions to its store and Internet customers. The basis of each marketing campaign, while primarily promotional, is the identification of the Jos. A. Bank name as synonymous with high quality, upscale, classic clothing offered at a value. The Company maintains a database of names of people who have previously made a purchase from one of the Company’s retail stores, its Internet site or catalog or have requested a catalog or other information from the Company. During fiscal year 2010, the Company completed a conversion of its customer database to an updated platform, retaining customer history only for the past four years. Upon this conversion, the Company maintained over 4.6 million names in this customer database as of fiscal year-end 2010. Of these names, approximately 3.2 million represent individuals who have made such purchases or information requests in the past 24 months, an increase over the 2.6 million of such customers as of fiscal year-end 2009. The Company evaluates its database for its mailings and selects names based on expectations of response to specific promotions, which allows the Company to efficiently use its marketing dollars. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004, the Company began testing national cable television advertising as a method to increase its brand awareness and to drive customers to its stores. The Company has increasingly expanded its use of television advertising in the past six years and expects to continue marketing through television advertising in fiscal year 2011. The Company employs a “high-low” product pricing strategy and runs targeted promotional events throughout the year based on market conditions and customer preferences and demands. As part of the “high-low” strategy, the Company promotes specific items or categories at prices that are below the retail price 9 Table of Contents regularly offered to customers. The Company also conducts clearance sales throughout the year, especially at the end of each of its two seasons, primarily to manage its seasonal inventory levels. Corporate Card Program. Certain organizations and companies can participate in our corporate card program, through which all of their employees are eligible to receive a 20% discount off regularly-priced Jos. A. Bank merchandise and for whom we develop specific marketing events throughout the year. The card is honored at all Full-line stores, as well as for catalog and Internet purchases. At year-end fiscal 2010, over 439,000 companies nationally, from small privately-owned companies to large public companies, were members of the program, representing an increase of approximately 14% over the approximately 385,000 member companies at year-end fiscal 2009. Participating companies are able to promote the card as a free benefit to their employees. As the number of participants in the corporate card program has increased significantly in the past several years, sales to these customers have become a substantial portion of total sales. Apparel Incentive Program. Jos. A. Bank Clothiers apparel incentive gift certificates are used by various companies as a reward for employee achievement or for employee recognition. The Company also redeems proprietary gift certificates and gift cards marketed by major premium/incentive companies. Distribution The Company uses a centralized distribution system, under which all merchandise is received, processed and distributed through two distribution facilities located in Hampstead, Maryland (one owned and one leased). The facilities are designed to handle different product types, with the owned building handling “flat” goods such as shirts, sweaters, ties, etc and the leased building handling primarily “hanging” goods such as suits, dress pants, coats, etc. Both buildings are designed to support corporate office functions as well as distribution center functions and are adjacent to each other. A portion of the merchandise received at the distribution centers is inspected to ensure expected quality in workmanship and conformity to Company specifications. The merchandise is then allocated to individual stores or to warehouse stock (to support the Direct Marketing segment and to replenish store inventory as merchandise is sold). Merchandise allocated to stores is then packed for delivery and shipped, principally by common carrier. Each store generally receives a shipment of merchandise one to five times a week from the distribution centers, depending on a store’s size or sales volume and the time of the year. Inventory of basic merchandise in stores is replenished regularly based on sales tracked through point-of-sale terminals. Shipments to customers purchasing through the Direct Marketing segment are also made from the central distribution facilities and, less frequently, from stores. To support new store growth, the Company has upgraded its distribution centers several times over the past ten years. In late fiscal year 2004, the Company increased its distribution center capacity by leasing and equipping approximately 289,000 square feet of space in a facility that is adjacent to the Company’s headquarters and original distribution center. This second distribution center became fully operational in early fiscal year 2005. With this fiscal year 2005 expansion, the distribution center facilities were designed to support approximately 500 stores plus the Direct Marketing segments. To accommodate our latest plans to expand the store base to approximately 650 to 675 total stores, we added another 126,000 square feet in the second distribution center in fiscal year 2010, of which 114,000 square feet was dedicated to distribution and 12,000 square feet was dedicated to office space. This expansion in fiscal year 2010 should be sufficient to support most of our expected capacity needs for hanging products. To support our capacity needs for flat products, we will add additional space in fiscal years 2011 and/or 2012 through either lease or acquisition. Management Information Systems In fiscal year 1998, the Company installed and implemented the then-current version of its merchandising, warehouse, sales audit, accounts payable and general ledger system. While several newer updates of this system have been released by the software vendor but not installed by the Company, the system meets the Company’s current business needs. In fiscal year 1999, the Company replaced its point-of-sale (“POS”) system and upgraded this system in fiscal years 2005 and 2007. In fiscal year 2007, the Company added a wide-area network to its POS system, which, among other functionality, enables electronic orders to be placed from the 10 Table of Contents stores by a sales associate to the Company’s centralized fulfillment center. In fiscal year 2007, the Company implemented a new financial reporting system. In fiscal year 2000, the Company upgraded its catalog order processing system to the then-current version, which was again updated in fiscal year 2007. During fiscal year 2009, the Company upgraded its existing Internet infrastructure in order to meet the increasing capacity needs and to add certain features to further enhance the customer shopping experience. In fiscal year 2007, the Company implemented a new system that increased its ability to communicate design specifications to its worldwide vendor base, which replaced a system installed in fiscal year 2003. In fiscal year 2004, the Company developed systems that allow increased management and reporting of pricing elements such as gross margins. The Company outsources to a third party the storage and maintenance of its customer relationships management (“CRM”) database. The Company can access the CRM database which it uses to select names for customer promotions. By using these systems, the Company is able to capture greater customer data and increase its marketing efficiency using such data. The Company upgraded its proprietary customer database systems in fiscal year 2010 with a new outsourced vendor, which should enable the Company to enhance the productivity of its customer database. In fiscal year 2010, the Company expanded its Internet platform to include two additional e-sites: Factory and Big and Tall. The Factory site allows customers to buy Factory goods online, whereas the Big and Tall site allows customers to buy extended-size goods online. Competition The Company competes primarily with other specialty retailers of men’s apparel, department stores and other catalog and online merchants engaged in the retail sale of men’s apparel, and to a lesser degree with other retailers of men’s apparel. The Company is one of only a few national multi-channel retailers focusing exclusively on men’s apparel, which the Company believes provides a competitive edge. The Company believes that it maintains its competitive position based not only on its ability to offer its high quality career clothing at reasonable prices, but also on its broad selection of in-stock merchandise, friendly customer service and product innovation as part of its “Four Pillars of Success.” The Company competes primarily with specialty and discount store chains, independent retailers, national and local department stores, Internet retailers and other catalogers engaged in the retail sale of men’s apparel, and to a lesser degree with other apparel retailers. These competitors, include, among others, Brooks Brothers, Macy’s, Lands End, Men’s Wearhouse and Nordstrom, as well as local and regional competitors in each store’s market. Many of these competitors are considerably larger and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. Trademarks The Company is the owner or exclusive licensee in the United States of the marks JOS. A. BANK®, JOS. A. BANK V.I.P.®, JOS. A. BANK VACATION IN PARADISE®, VACATION IN PARADISE®, THE MIRACLE COLLECTION® and TRAVELER CREASE® (collectively, the “Jos. A. Bank Marks”). These trademarks are registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. A Federal registration is renewable indefinitely if the trademark is still in use at the time of renewal. The Company’s rights in the Jos. A. Bank Marks are a material part of the Company’s business. Accordingly, the Company intends to maintain its use of the Jos. A. Bank Marks. The Company is not aware of any claims of infringement or other material challenges to the Company’s right to use the Jos. A. Bank Marks in the United States. An application has been filed by a third party for registration in China of the trademark “Jos. A. Bank.” The Company has filed an opposition to the application. In addition, the Company has registered “josbank.com” and various other Internet domain names. The Company intends to renew its registration of domain names from time to time for the conduct and protection of its e-commerce business. 11 Table of Contents Seasonality The Company’s net sales, net income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and therefore the results for one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. The increased customer traffic during the holiday season and the Company’s increased marketing efforts during this peak selling time have resulted in sales and profits generated during the fourth quarter becoming a larger portion of annual sales and profits as compared to the other three quarters. Seasonality is also impacted by growth as more new stores have historically been opened in the second half of the year. During the fourth quarters of fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010, the Company generated approximately 36%, 36% and 37%, respectively, of its annual net sales and approximately 52%, 50% and 48%, respectively, of its annual net income. Employees As of March 23, 2011, the Company had approximately 4,998 employees, consisting of 3,728 full-time employees and 1,270 part-time employees. Approximately 320 of our employees work in the Hampstead, Maryland tailoring overflow shop and distribution centers, most of whom are represented by the Mid-Atlantic Regional Joint Board, Local 806. The stated term of our collective bargaining agreement with the Mid-Atlantic Regional Joint Board, Local 806 expires on February 28, 2012. Approximately 90 of our sales associates in New York City and four surrounding New York counties are represented by Local 340, New York New Jersey Regional Joint Board, Workers United. Our most recent collective bargaining agreement covering these employees ends on April 30, 2013. As there have been no work stoppages in more than 20 years, the Company believes that relations are good with both of the unions that represent segments of its employees. The Company also believes that its relations with its non-union employees are good. Available Information The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 500 Hanover Pike, Hampstead, Maryland 21074. The Company’s telephone number is (410) 239-2700 and its website address is www.josbank.com. The Company makes its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports available on its website free of charge as soon as practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed or furnished by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report. If any of the identified risks actually occurs, or is adversely resolved, the Company’s consolidated financial statements could be materially, adversely impacted in a particular fiscal quarter or year and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially. As a result, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in the stock of the Company. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents If we are not able to continue profitably opening new stores due to general economic conditions or otherwise, our growth may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our growth has resulted and is expected to continue to result from the opening of new stores. The deterioration in the U.S. economic environment, the disruption and significant tightening in the U.S. credit and lending markets and reduced consumer spending, among other things, can slow the development of new shopping malls and retail centers which can restrict the Company’s ability to find suitable locations for new stores. The Company believes that quality real estate opportunities are available in the marketplace, but such economic troubles could lead to adjustments to our expansion program in fiscal year 2011 and beyond. While we believe that we will continue to be able to obtain suitable locations for new stores, negotiate acceptable lease terms, hire qualified personnel and open and operate new stores on a timely and profitable basis, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these objectives. As we continue our expansion program, the proposed expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our financial performance. The opening of new stores may adversely affect Direct Marketing sales and profits. In addition, the opening of new stores in existing markets may adversely affect sales and profits of established stores in those markets. The results achieved by our existing stores may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of stores in other locations. We cannot assure you that any new store that we open will have similar operating results to those of prior stores. New stores commonly take up to five years to reach desired operating levels due to development typically associated with new stores such as growing the customer base, increasing brand awareness and the development of the store’s sales team. The failure of the existing or the new stores to perform as predicted could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to fund our expansion through use of existing cash, short-term investments and cash flows from operations. However, if we experience limitations on our ability to utilize these sources of liquidity, our performance declines or other factors so dictate, we may slow or discontinue store openings. If we fail to successfully implement our expansion program, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition and may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or profitability. The retail apparel business is highly competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete primarily with specialty and discount store chains, independent retailers, national and local department stores, Internet retailers and other catalogers engaged in the retail sale of men’s apparel, and to a lesser degree with other apparel retailers. Many of these competitors are much larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In many cases, our primary competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls or retail centers as our stores. In order to better compete, we may need to increase the number of promotional sales, which could reduce our margins and affect our profitability. Moreover, in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls and retail centers. We believe that our emphasis on classic styles make our business less vulnerable to changes in merchandise trends than many apparel retailers; however, our sales and profitability depend upon the continued demand for our classic styles. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; • developing innovative, high-quality new products and/or product/brand extensions in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; • competitively pricing our products and achieving value for our customers; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. 13 Table of Contents Increased competition or our failure to meet these competitive challenges could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is tied to consumer spending for discretionary items and negative changes to consumer confidence and other recessionary pressures brought on by, among other things, general economic conditions, could have an adverse affect on our business. Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions, consumer confidence and the levels of disposable consumer income which is impacted by consumer debt, interest rates, unemployment levels, changes in financial markets, reductions in net worth, residential real estate values, tight credit markets, taxation, gasoline and energy costs, among other factors. Consumer confidence also may be adversely affected by national and international security concerns such as war, terrorism or the threat of war or terrorism. In addition, because apparel and accessories generally are discretionary purchases, declines in consumer spending patterns may impact us more negatively as a specialty retailer and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing economic problems in the United States have resulted in a high unemployment rate, lower consumer confidence, shortages of consumer credit, recessionary pressures and overall slowing in the growth in the retail sector which may continue to be negatively affected for the foreseeable future. Consumer spending for higher value discretionary items generally declines faster than for other retail purchases during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. We cannot assure you that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets or any stimulus plans will have a positive impact on the current economic situation. If the current unfavorable economic conditions continue, consumer purchases of our merchandise could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Tight credit markets may have a negative effect on our business. Distress in the financial markets, such as the distress experienced by the United States economy since late fiscal year 2008, may result in diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. In fiscal year 2010, we elected not to renew our credit facility and a tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds through new credit facilities or through the issuance of the Company’s securities. Our immediate cash requirements, which fluctuate daily, are deposited at financial institutions and exceed federally insured limits. If the financial environment causes these financial institutions to become unstable or fail, we may experience losses on these deposit accounts. Our cash investment strategies may have a negative effect on our business. At present, we invest most of our cash in money market accounts and overnight federally-sponsored agency notes and U.S. Treasury bills with original maturities of 90 days or less. Our short-term investments consist primarily of U.S. Treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. The returns on these investments effectively reflect current market interest rates. As a result, market interest rate changes may negatively impact our net interest income or expense. We may invest in other types of securities such as municipal or corporate debt instruments or other types of potentially higher yielding securities, the value of which could be negatively impacted by changing liquidity conditions, credit rating downgrades, changes in market interest rates or a deterioration of the underlying entities’ financial condition, among other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash/investments could decline and result in a material impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the contributions of our senior management team. In addition, our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing merchandise trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other departments. We face intense competition in hiring and retaining these personnel. If we fail to retain and motivate our current personnel and attract new personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Also, the achievement of our expansion plans will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel as we expand. We rely heavily on a limited number of key suppliers, the loss of any of which could cause a significant disruption to our business and negatively affect our business. Historically, we have purchased a substantial portion of our products from a limited number of suppliers throughout the world. During fiscal year 2010, approximately 51% of the Company’s total product purchases were sourced through a buying agent and we expect to continue this relationship in fiscal year 2011 and beyond. The loss of this buying agent or any of the Company’s other key suppliers or any significant interruption in our product supply, such as manufacturing problems or shipping delays, could have an adverse effect on our business due to lost sales, cancellation charges, excessive markdowns or delays in finding alternative sources, and could result in increased costs. In addition, the current economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, liquidations and other unfavorable events for industry suppliers. Key vendors may also be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and flooding which could adversely impact their operations. These suppliers may not be able to overcome any such difficulties which could lead to interruptions in our product supply and could also lead to increases in the costs that we pay for our products as any surviving suppliers could be in better positions to increase their prices. Although we have not experienced any material disruptions in our sourcing in the past several years, any significant disruption of supply from any of these sources or supplier failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on foreign sources of production exposes us to a number of risks of doing business on an international basis. We expect to continue our sourcing from suppliers throughout the world, which may result in additional concentration of our sources. As a result, we face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including: • political instability of foreign countries; • imposition of new legislation or rules relating to imports that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries or regions; • obligations associated with being an importer of record, including monitoring and complying with all legal requirements; • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • local business practice and political issues, including strikes and other work stoppages and issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity; • migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced; • potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts, including delays or disruptions due to security considerations; • volatile fuel supplies and costs; and 15 Table of Contents • since we transact all business in the U.S. dollar, the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the foreign currencies of our suppliers’ countries could adversely affect our product costs. Any significant disruption of production from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if the foreign manufacturers of our products do not use acceptable labor practices. We require the third-party manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our staff and buying agents periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by these independent manufacturers could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of products to us. The divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could damage our reputation, which may result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores, as well as purchasing through our catalogs and Internet site, and therefore could adversely affect our sales, net earnings, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by increased costs of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business. Our products are manufactured using several key raw materials, including wool and cotton, which are subject to fluctuations in price and availability. The prices for these raw materials can be volatile due to the demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic, climate and other unpredictable factors. We purchase the raw materials for approximately 9% of our finished products. Five vendors accounted for over 72% of the raw materials purchased directly by us in fiscal year 2010. The remainder of our finished products are purchased as finished units, with the vendor responsible for the acquisition of the raw materials. Some of these finished unit vendors purchase raw materials from the same suppliers as the Company. Changes in raw materials costs, such as wool and cotton, to the vendors or to us may impact the long-term cost of our finished products. In recent months, the prices of cotton, wool and other production inputs have increased significantly. The Company expects these prices to continue to remain at these elevated levels in fiscal year 2011, which will have a significant impact on the Company’s product costs and potentially have a negative impact on its gross profit margin. Other costs such as fuel costs, labor costs and healthcare costs could also have an adverse impact on our vendors’ manufacturing costs and on our freight costs, sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses. Any significant fluctuations in price or availability of our raw materials and other resources or any significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to meet the changing preferences of our customers. We must successfully gauge merchandise trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. Our success is dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The retail clothing business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion, performance, luxury and seasonality. To the extent the market for our merchandise weakens, whether due to a decrease in demand resulting from the troubled economy or otherwise, sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in the demand for tailored and casual clothing and accessories affect our inventory levels. As our business is seasonal, we must purchase and carry a significant amount of inventory prior to peak selling seasons. We issue purchase orders for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing merchandise trends or 16 Table of Contents consumer acceptance for our products. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the volume of traffic in the retail centers in which our stores are located and the availability of suitable lease space. Many of our stores are located in retail centers where sales are affected in part by the volume of customer traffic. Customer traffic may be adversely affected by the current economic environment and as a result we may experience reduced sales and store closings. In addition, a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment in a retail center, or a decline in the popularity of a retail center among our target consumers, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs that allow us to maintain our profitability. We cannot be sure as to when or whether desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. In addition, we must be able to renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our failure to secure favorable locations and lease terms initially, and upon renewal, could result in our loss of market share and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our advertising, marketing and promotional activities are highly regulated. Our operations are subject to various federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations related to our advertising, marketing and promotional activities. We continue to be subject to a consent decree mandating certain advertising practices relating to sales promotions. We endeavor to monitor and comply with all applicable laws and regulations (including the consent decree) to ensure that our advertising, marketing and promotional activities comply with all applicable legal requirements, many of which involve subjective judgments. Any changes in such laws or regulations, or how the laws or regulations are enforced, or any failure to comply with such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on third party delivery services exposes us to business interruptions and service issues that are beyond our control. Our success is impacted by the timely delivery of merchandise from our distribution facilities to our stores and customers. Third party transportation companies deliver substantially all of our merchandise to our stores and our customers. Some of these third parties employ union labor. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of any of these third parties could delay the timely delivery of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. We may be required to respond in a number of ways, many of which could decrease our gross profits and net income and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Effects of war, terrorism, public health events, natural disasters and other catastrophes. War, terrorism, public health events (including severe infectious diseases and insect infestation), natural disasters and other catastrophes (or the threat of any of these) in the United States or elsewhere could damage or disrupt the national or global economy and the sourcing, production, receipt or shipment of our merchandise and could lead to lower customer traffic in our stores. These catastrophes could also disrupt Company operations in our offices, distribution centers and stores. Any of the foregoing could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on our two distribution centers located in Hampstead, Maryland exposes us to the risk of a substantial disruption to our business. We concentrate the distribution of our products in two adjacent distribution centers located in Hampstead, Maryland. Substantially all of the merchandise that we purchase is shipped directly to these distribution centers, where the merchandise is prepared for shipment to our stores and our customers. If these distribution 17 Table of Contents centers were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, such as due to fire or other catastrophic event or natural disaster, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. As a result, we could incur longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores and customers and significantly higher operating costs during the period prior to and after our reopening or replacing these distribution centers. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance, if any, will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution centers or systems are shut down for any reason. These shut-downs could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by increased paper, printing and mailing costs. Increases in postal rates, paper costs or printing costs would affect the cost of producing and distributing our catalog and promotional mailings and sales and marketing expenses. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. The unavailability of these discounts, as well as increases in future paper, printing and postal costs could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to offset these increases by raising prices or by implementing more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or protect ourselves from the claims of third-parties may not be effective. Our trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. We are the owner or exclusive licensee in the United States of the marks JOS. A. BANK®, JOS. A. BANK V.I.P.®, JOS. A. BANK VACATION IN PARADISE®, VACATION IN PARADISE®, THE MIRACLE COLLECTION® and TRAVELER CREASE ®, each of which is registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or other infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. The actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products alleged to be in violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to the marks that we license and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Our failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or protect ourselves from the claims of third parties could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to a number of risks involving the acceptance and processing of credit cards, the occurrence of which could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acceptance of credit cards at our stores and through our catalog and Internet channels necessarily involves the gathering and storage of sensitive, personal information regarding our customers. Although we believe our systems are sound, no system is completely invulnerable to attack or loss of data. A loss of such data could subject us to financial and legal risks, as well as diminish our reputation and customer loyalty. Further, our continued ability to accept and process credit cards is dependent, in part, on our contractual relationships with our acquiring bank (i.e. the bank at which we maintain our account for collecting credit card payments from customers) and our credit card processor (i.e. the third party that submits on our behalf credit card transactions to our acquiring bank). Any disruption or change in these contractual relationships could interrupt our business or increase our costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks, or other risks associated with the acceptance and processing of credit cards, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We face a number of risks relating to the maintenance of our information systems and our use of consumer information. We rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. In addition, we are increasingly dependent on the Internet, which is the primary channel of our Direct Marketing segment, and centralized computer systems and networks to process and transmit transactions and to store electronic information. It is critical that we maintain uninterrupted access to and operation of these systems. These systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to interruption or damage from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, system capacity constraints, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and other natural disasters. If these systems cease to function properly or are damaged, we may suffer interruptions in our operations and we may be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace them. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. We maintain a customer database which is important to our marketing efforts. Any limitations imposed on the use of this consumer data, whether imposed by federal, state, or local governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activity. In addition, to the extent that our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to financial and legal risks, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand, in addition to the adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has become increasingly dependent on promotional activity and a strong holiday season. Our net sales, net income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and therefore the results for one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. During the fourth quarters of fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010, we generated approximately 36%, 36% and 37%, respectively, of our annual net sales and approximately 52%, 50% and 48%, respectively, of our annual net income, which resulted, in part, from increased customer traffic during the holiday season and our increased marketing efforts during this peak selling time. Any decrease in the effectiveness of our increased promotional activity could adversely affect our sales. The current economic climate, including recessionary pressures, may cause such decreases to net sales. Any reduction in retail traffic in and around our store locations could also adversely affect our sales. Any decrease in sales or margins, especially during the fourth quarter, could have a disproportionate effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, major storms could negatively impact our sales and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will face a number of risks if we pursue growth by acquisitions or other strategic opportunities. We may from time to time hold discussions and negotiations regarding strategic opportunities, including with (i) potential investors who express an interest in making an investment in or acquiring us, (ii) potential joint venture partners looking toward the formation of strategic alliances and (iii) companies that represent potential acquisition or investment opportunities for us. We cannot assure you that any definitive agreement will be reached regarding the foregoing, nor do we believe that any such agreement is necessary to implement successfully our strategic plans. Pursuing growth by acquisitions or other strategic opportunities will expose us to the various risks that arise therefrom, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The following, among other factors, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate: • Our sales and profitability results and those of others in the retail industry; • Anticipation regarding our future operating results and those generally operating in the retail industry; and • Changes in earnings estimates by research analysts. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our common stock, as well as that of other companies, including our competitors, and which may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of these other companies. Our charter documents, our Rights Agreement and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, our Rights Agreement and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our Rights Agreement has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, this premium may not be realized or the market price of our common stock could decline. Rights of our stockholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which are authorized and available for issuance under our restated certificate of incorporation. After giving effect to the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock which are reserved for potential issuance pursuant to our Rights Agreement, we have available for issuance 50,000 shares of preferred stock, $1.00 par value per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of these 50,000 shares, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of stockholders. The rights of our stockholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and could divert our management’s attention and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are subject to various litigation and legal proceedings and claims, including those identified in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Although we intend to defend the identified matters vigorously, we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage, if any, would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. Regardless of their merit, the legal matters may result in a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could be disruptive to our operations. In addition, costs and potential losses associated with these legal matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 Table of Contents 