Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in Renal Care Group. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Renal Care Group. Other risks and uncertainties that we have not predicted or assessed may also adversely affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our earnings, financial condition or business could be materially harmed, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, resulting in the loss of all or part of your investment. Completion of the Fresenius Medical Care transaction is subject to various conditions; as a result we can not assure you that our transaction with Fresenius Medical Care will be completed. The completion of the acquisition of Renal Care Group by Fresenius Medical Care is subject to various conditions, including the following: • the termination or expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the approval of the transaction under that act; • the absence of a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by any court or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the transaction; • the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Renal Care Group and Fresenius Medical Care in the merger agreement; • the performance in all material respects by Renal Care Group and Fresenius Medical Care of all obligations required to be performed by each of them under the merger agreement at or prior to the effective time of the transaction; • the absence of an event, change, effect or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have, a material adverse effect on Renal Care Group as defined in the merger agreement; or • the satisfaction or waiver by the lenders of the conditions precedent to the initial funding of Fresenius Medical Care’s financing commitments that are related to the delivery of releases of liens encumbering the assets of Renal Care Group and the delivery of financial statements of Renal Care Group. Because of these conditions, the transaction with Fresenius Medical Care may not be completed. If the transaction is not completed for any reason, then our current management, under the direction of our Board of Directors, will continue to manage Renal Care Group. 18 Table of Contents Failure to complete the Fresenius Medical Care transaction could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to operate our business. If the transaction with Fresenius Medical Care is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to a number of material risks, including: • the market price of our common stock could decline; • we must pay some of the costs related to the transaction, such as legal and accounting fees and a portion of the investment banking fees and, in specified circumstances, termination fees and expense reimbursement payments, even if the transaction is not completed, and those costs will be expensed in the fiscal period in which termination occurs; • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business and the unavoidable disruption to our associates and our relationships with patients, medical directors, attending physicians and suppliers, during the period before completion of the transaction, may make it difficult for us to regain our financial and market position if the transaction does not occur; and • the loss of key management, clinical and technical personnel who may be uncertain about their future roles and relationships with Renal Care Group following the completion of the transaction with Fresenius Medical Care could make it difficult for us to operate our business effectively and profitably if we are unable to replace these employees if the transaction with Fresenius Medical Care is not completed. If the merger agreement is terminated and our Board of Directors seeks another transaction or business combination, then our shareholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find an acquirer willing to pay an equivalent or better price than the price to be paid by Fresenius Medical Care under the merger agreement. Our profits are dependent on the services we provide to a small portion of our patients who are covered by private insurance. In recent reviews of dialysis reimbursement, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, also known as MedPAC, has noted that Medicare payments for dialysis services are less than the average costs that providers incur to provide the services. Since Medicaid rates are comparable to those of Medicare and because Medicare only pays us 80% of the Medicare allowable amount (the patient, Medicaid or secondary insurance being responsible for the remaining 20%), the amount we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is less than our average cost per treatment. As a result, the payments we receive from private payors both subsidize the losses we incur on services for Medicare and Medicaid patients and generate all the profits we report. In fact, much of our profit is generated from private-pay patients for whom we are paid at amounts equal to several times Medicare rates. We estimate that Medicare and Medicaid are the primary payors for approximately 80% of the patients to whom we provide care but that only 55% of our net revenue in 2003, 53% of our net revenue in 2004 and 56% of our net revenue in 2005 were derived from Medicare and Medicaid. Therefore, if the private payors who pay for the care of the other 20% of our patients reduce their payments for our services, or if we experience a shift in our revenue mix toward Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement, then our revenue, cash flow and earnings would decrease, and our cash flow and profits would be disproportionately impacted. Over the last few years, we have generally been able to implement annual price increases of between 7% and 12% for private insurers and managed care organizations, but government reimbursement has remained flat or has been increased only modestly. Management believes that health insurance pricing is cyclical and that we may be at or near the top of the cycle. During 2005 we experienced pricing pressure from a number of private payors. As a result of the industry cycle and this pricing pressure, management believes that our ability to maintain or raise rates to private insurers and managed care companies may be more limited over the next several years than it has been in the recent past. Management believes that the reductions in reimbursement by commercial insurers, along with pricing pressure from other commercial insurers and managed care organizations, could adversely impact our revenue per treatment and earnings per share in 2006. Any of the following events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings: • any number of economic or demographic factors could cause private insurers, hospitals or managed care companies to reduce the rates they pay us or to refuse to pay price increases or to work to reduce the rate of our price increases; • a portion of our business that is currently reimbursed by private insurers or hospitals may become reimbursed by managed care organizations, which generally have lower rates for our services; or 19 Table of Contents • a portion of our business that is currently reimbursed by private insurers at rates based on our billed charges may become reimbursed under a contract at lower rates. If Congress or CMS changes the Medicare or Medicaid programs for dialysis, then our net revenue and earnings could decrease. If the government changes the Medicare, Medicaid or other government programs or the rates those programs pay for our services, then our revenue and earnings may decline. We estimate that approximately 55% of our net revenue for 2003, 53% of our net revenue for 2004, and 56% of our net revenue in 2005 consisted of reimbursements from Medicare, Medicaid and comparable state programs, including reimbursement for the administration of EPO. Any of the following actions in connection with government programs could cause our revenue and earnings to decline: • a reduction of the amount paid to us under government programs; • an increase in the costs associated with performing our services that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, without a corresponding increase in reimbursement rates; • the inclusion of some or all ancillary services, for which we are now reimbursed separately, in the flat composite rate for a dialysis treatment; or • changes in laws, or the interpretations of laws, which could cause us to modify our operations. We cannot predict whether any of the proposed cuts will be made or how they will affect us. In addition, Congress and CMS have proposed expanding the drugs and services that are included in the flat composite rate. CMS has indicated that it believes such a mechanism would be fairer and easier to administer. In addition, Congress mandated a change in the way we are paid for some of the drugs, including EPO, that we bill for outside of the flat composite rate. This change has resulted in lower reimbursement for these drugs and a higher composite rate. Under recently adopted regulations, in 2006 we will be reimbursed for separately billable ESRD drugs at average sales price plus 6.0%. In addition, the composite rate was increased by 14.7% to account for the change in drug reimbursement. Other regulations include changes in the geographic designations and wage indices used to calculate the composite rate in specific areas. If states lower Medicaid reimbursement, then we would be less profitable. The Medicaid programs in Alaska and New Mexico currently reimburse us for some items at rates higher than those paid by Medicare. These programs may reduce payment levels to be at or close to Medicare rates. In addition, a number of the states in which we operate are experiencing budget shortfalls, and some of these states may consider reducing Medicaid reimbursement, changing their Medicaid programs or not paying claims to address these shortfalls and cut costs. We are unable to predict whether and, if so, when any reductions in Medicaid reimbursement might occur and what their precise effect will be. If reimbursement for EPO decreases, then we could be less profitable. If government or private payors reduce reimbursement rates for EPO, for which we are currently reimbursed separately outside of the flat composite rate, then our revenue and earnings will decline. Revenues from the administration of EPO were approximately 24% of our net revenue for 2003, 26% of our net revenue for 2004 and 24% of our net revenue for 2005. Most of our payments for EPO come from government programs. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement represented approximately 56% of the total revenue we derived from EPO. A reduction in the reimbursement rate for EPO or the inclusion of EPO in the list of items covered by the flat composite rate could materially and adversely affect our net revenue and earnings. As discussed above, as part of the Medicare Modernization Act, Congress mandated a change in the way we are reimbursed for EPO, and CMS has adopted regulations to implement the change. In 2005 we were reimbursed for EPO at an average acquisition price. In 2006, we will be reimbursed for CMS published proposed rules for EPO at average sales price plus 6.0%. This average sales price plus 6.0% will be substantially less than average acquisition price. 20 Table of Contents If Amgen raises the price for EPO or if EPO becomes in short supply, then we could be less profitable. EPO is produced by a single manufacturer, Amgen, Inc. In April 2002, Amgen announced a 3.9% increase in the price of EPO. This price increase adversely affected our earnings in 2003, and changes in the rebate structure under our contracts with Amgen adversely affected our earnings in 2004 and 2005. In June 2005, Amgen implemented a 4.9% increase in the price of EPO. This price increase will not affect us in 2006. Further changes in the rebate structure under our current contract with Amgen or in Amgen’s packaging process for EPO, may adversely affect our earnings in 2006. If Amgen imposes additional EPO price increases or if Amgen or other factors interrupt the supply of EPO, then our net revenue and earnings will decline. If Amgen markets Aranesp® for ESRD patients, then we could be less profitable. Amgen has developed and obtained FDA approval for another drug to treat anemia that is marketed as Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa). Aranesp® is a longer acting form of bio-engineered protein that, like EPO, can be used to treat anemia. EPO is usually administered in conjunction with each dialysis treatment. Aranesp® can remain effective for two to three weeks. If Amgen markets Aranesp® for the treatment of dialysis patients, then our earnings could be materially and adversely affected by either of the following factors: • our margins realized from the administration of Aranesp® could be lower than the margins realized on the administration of EPO; or • physicians could decide to administer Aranesp® in their offices, and we would not recognize net revenue or profit from the administration of EPO or Aranesp®. Changes in our clinical practices or reimbursement rules for EPO and other drugs could substantially reduce our revenue and earnings. The administration of EPO and other drugs accounted for approximately 35% of our net revenue during 2005. Changes in physician practices or prescription patterns, changes in private and governmental reimbursement criteria or the introduction of new drugs or new types of drug administration could materially reduce our net revenue and profits. For example, some Medicare fiscal intermediaries have implemented or may implement local medical review policies for EPO and other drugs that would effectively limit reimbursement for those drugs. In 2005, CMS adopted a national policy that will establish limits on reimbursement for EPO. This policy will become effective in April 2006. These changes may have an adverse impact on our net revenue and earnings. If our business is alleged or found to violate heath care or other applicable laws, our net revenue and earnings could decrease. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation. The laws that apply to our operations include, but are not limited to, the following: • fraud and abuse prohibitions under state and federal health care laws; • prohibitions and limitations on patient referrals; • billing and reimbursement rules, including false claims prohibitions under health care reimbursement laws; • rules regarding the collection, use, storage and disclosure of patient health information, including HIPAA, and state law equivalents of HIPAA; • facility licensure; • health and safety requirements; • environmental compliance; and • medical and toxic waste disposal. 21 Table of Contents Much of the regulation of our business, particularly in the areas of fraud and abuse and patient referral, is complex and open to differing interpretations. Due to the broad application of the statutory provisions and the absence in many instances of regulations or court decisions addressing the specific arrangements through which we conduct our business, including our arrangements with medical directors, physician stockholders and physician joint venture partners, governmental agencies could challenge some of our practices under these laws. New regulations governing electronic transactions and the collection, use, storage, and disclosure of health information impose significant administrative and financial obligations on our business. If, after the required compliance date, we are found to have violated these regulations, we could be subject to: • criminal or civil penalties, including significant fines; • claims by people who believe their health information has been improperly used or disclosed; and • administrative penalties by payors. Government investigations could adversely affect Renal Care Group. Government investigations of health care providers, including dialysis providers, have continued to increase. We have been the subject of investigations in the past, we are involved in current investigations, and the government may investigate our business in the future. One of our competitors, DaVita, Inc., has announced that it is the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In December 2004, another competitor, Gambro Healthcare, Inc., settled matters related to an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in St. Louis, Missouri and paid approximately $350.0 million in connection with the settlement. In March 2005, the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri served a subpoena on DaVita, Inc. requiring the production of a broad range of documents. In April 2005, the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri served a similar subpoena on Fresenius Medical Care. On August 9, 2005, we received a subpoena from the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri. The subpoena requires us to produce documents related to numerous aspects of our business and operations. The subpoena includes specific requests for documents related to our supply company, pharmaceutical and other services we provide to patients (including the administration of EPO), our relationships with pharmaceutical companies, our relationships with physicians, medical director compensation, joint ventures with physicians and our purchases of dialysis equipment from Fresenius Medical Care. The subpoena was issued in connection with a joint civil and criminal investigation. We are cooperating with the government’s investigation; we have produced numerous documents to the government in response to this subpoena. We have incurred significant legal and other expenses in responding to the subpoena and have experienced some distraction of management attention. Compliance with the subpoena will require us to incur substantial additional legal expenses and will require further management attention. To our knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated against Renal Care Group at this time, but we cannot predict whether or when proceedings might be initiated. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any proceedings that may be initiated against us as a result of this investigation. Any such proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition results of operations. On October 25, 2004, we received a subpoena from the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York. The subpoena requires us to provide documents related to numerous aspects of our business and operations, including those of RenaLab, Inc., our laboratory. The subpoena includes specific requests for documents related to testing for parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels and vitamin D therapies. Our competitors DaVita, Fresenius Medical Care, and Gambro Healthcare, as well as other participants in the dialysis industry, have announced that they have received similar subpoenas. We are cooperating with the government’s investigation. We have produced numerous documents to the government in response to this subpoena. We have incurred significant legal and other expenses responding to the subpoena. Compliance with this subpoena will require us to incur additional legal expenses and could distract management attention. To our knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated against Renal Care Group at this time, but we cannot predict whether or when proceedings might be initiated. We cannot predict the outcome of any proceedings that may be initiated against us a result of this investigation. Any such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any aspect of our operations is found to violate applicable laws, then we may be subject to severe sanctions and we could be required to alter or discontinue the challenged conduct or both. If sanctions are imposed on us, then there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to alter or discontinue practices, then we may not be able to do so successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our joint ventures violate the law, our business could be damaged. A number of the dialysis centers we operate are owned by joint ventures in which we hold a controlling interest and one or more physicians or physician practice groups hold a minority interest. The physician owners may also provide medical director services to those centers or other centers we own and operate. Our joint venture arrangements do not satisfy all elements of any safe harbor under 22 Table of Contents the Anti-Kickback statutes. If one or more of our joint ventures were found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law, we could be required to restructure them or refuse to accept referrals for designated health services from the physicians with whom those particular joint venture centers have a relationship. We also could be required to repay to Medicare amounts received by the joint ventures pursuant to prohibited referrals, and we could be subject to monetary penalties. If we are subject to any of these penalties, our business could be damaged. Changes in the health care delivery, financing or reimbursement systems could adversely affect our business. The health care industry in the United States may be entering a period of change and uncertainty. Health care organizations, public or private, may dramatically change the way they operate and pay for services. Our business is designed to function within the current health care financing and reimbursement system. During the past several years, the health care industry has been subject to increasing levels of government regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and relationships with referring physicians. In addition, proposals to reform the health care system have been considered by Congress. In light of the continued increases in the cost of health care and the current economic situation coupled with the federal budget deficit, there may be new proposals to change the health care system and control costs. These proposals, if enacted, could further increase the government’s oversight role and involvement in health care, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the operating environment for health care companies. We cannot predict the likelihood of those events or what impact they may have on our business. If local physicians stop sending patients to our centers or were prohibited from doing so for regulatory reasons, then our revenue and earnings would decline. Our dialysis centers depend on local nephrologists sending patients to the centers. Typically, one or a few physicians’ patients make up all or a significant portion of the patient base at each of our dialysis centers, and the loss of the patient base of one or more of these physicians could have a material adverse effect on the operations of that center. The loss of the patient base of a significant number of local physicians could cause our revenue and earnings to decline. In many instances, the primary referral sources for our centers are physicians who also serve as medical directors of our centers and may be shareholders or minority participants in a joint venture. If the medical director relationship, stock ownership or joint venture relationship were found to violate applicable federal or state law, including fraud and abuse laws and laws prohibiting self-referrals, then these physicians could be forced to stop referring patients to our centers. A number of our medical director agreements will expire over the next three years, unless they are renewed or renegotiated. We did not renew or renegotiate a small number of our medical director agreements that expired in 2005, and we may not be able to renew or renegotiate expiring medical director agreements successfully, or we may not be able to enforce the non-competition provisions of some of our medical director or other agreements. Any of these factors could result in a loss of patients, since dialysis patients are typically treated at a center where their physician, or a member of his or her practice group serves as medical director. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified physicians to serve as medical directors of our dialysis centers. The dialysis business is highly competitive. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, then we could lose market share and our rate of growth could slow. The dialysis industry is largely consolidated, and the consolidation trend continues as large providers acquire other providers. In October 2005, DaVita acquired Gambro Healthcare’s United States dialysis services business. As a result there are now three large dialysis companies (including Renal Care Group) that compete for the acquisition of outpatient dialysis centers and the development of relationships with referring physicians. The other two competitors are significantly larger companies, which may enable them to pay more or otherwise compete more effectively for acquisitions. In addition Fresenius Medical Care also manufactures dialysis equipment, which may allow it to benefit from lower equipment costs. We also face competition from new entrants into the market, including centers established by former medical directors or other referring physicians. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with any of our competitors. If we are unable to make acquisitions in the future, then our rate of growth will slow. Much of our historical growth has come from acquisitions. In May 2005 we announced the definitive agreement under which Fresenius Medical Care has agreed to acquire Renal Care Group, subject to several conditions. While this transaction is pending it is unlikely that we will be able to complete acquisitions consistent with our historical practices, because of uncertainty concerning Renal Care Group and restrictions in the merger agreement. We may be unable to identify and complete suitable acquisitions at prices we are 23 Table of Contents willing to pay, or we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing. Further, due to the increased size of our business, the amount that acquired businesses contribute to our revenue and profits will continue to be smaller on a percentage basis. Also, we believe competition for acquisitions has intensified in light of the smaller pool of available acquisition candidates and other market forces. As a result, we believe it will be more difficult for us to acquire suitable companies on favorable terms. Further, the businesses we acquire may not perform well enough to justify our investment. If we are unable to make additional acquisitions on suitable terms, then we may not meet our growth expectations. If acquired businesses have unknown liabilities, then we could be exposed to liabilities that could harm our business and profitability. Businesses we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws. Although we attempt to identify practices that may give rise to unknown or contingent liabilities and conform them to our standards after the acquisition, private plaintiffs or governmental agencies may still assert claims. Even though we generally seek to obtain indemnification from the sellers of businesses we buy, unknown and contingent liabilities may not be covered by indemnification or may exceed contractual limits or the financial capacity of the indemnifying party. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $576.1 million, including a $20.8 million fair value premium on the 9.0% senior subordinated notes, and cash of approximately $2.5 million. Also, subject to limitations, including those in our credit facility and those included in the indenture for our 9.0% senior subordinated notes, we are not and will not be prohibited from incurring additional debt. Due to the large amount of our consolidated debt, we may not generate enough cash from our operations to meet these obligations or to fund other liquidity needs. Our ability to generate cash in the future is, to some extent, subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise funds in the capital markets. However, we cannot assure you that, if we are unable to pay our debt, we will be able to refinance it, obtain additional equity capital or sell assets, in each case on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or otherwise be able to fund our liquidity needs. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our outstanding debt. If such a default were to occur, the lenders under our credit facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility immediately due and payable, and the lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds to us under our credit facility. In addition, if such a default were to occur, the 9.0% senior subordinated notes would become immediately due and payable. If these debt obligations are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets will be sufficient to repay the money we owe to banks and other debt holders. The large amount and terms of our outstanding debt may prevent us from taking actions we would otherwise consider in our best interest. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior subordinated notes and our credit facility contain numerous financial and operating covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities such as: • incurring additional debt; • acquiring and developing new dialysis centers; • making investments; • creating liens; • creating restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us; • disposing of assets; • paying dividends on our capital stock; 24 Table of Contents • repurchasing our capital stock; • engaging in transactions with our affiliates; or • consolidating, merging or selling all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facility also requires us to comply with financial covenants, including a net worth test, a leverage ratio test and a fixed charge coverage ratio test. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit facility or our inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default, which would allow the lenders under our credit facility to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable, and triggering an event of default under the indenture governing our 9.0% senior subordinated notes. In addition, our lenders could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making debt service payments on our 9.0% senior subordinated notes. If the amounts outstanding under our credit facility or these notes are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money we owe the banks and our other debt holders. The large amount of our outstanding debt and the limitations our credit facility impose on us could have adverse consequences, including: • having to use much of our cash flow for scheduled debt service rather than for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes, such as funding working capital and capital expenditures; • being unable to increase our borrowings under our credit facility or obtain other debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes; • being less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, including acquisitions or divestitures; • difficulty satisfying our obligations under our 9.0% senior subordinated notes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt. If our costs of insurance and claims increase, then our earnings could decrease. We currently maintain programs of general and professional liability insurance and directors’ and officers’ insurance with significant deductible or self-insured retention amounts on each claim. In addition, we generally self-insure our employee health plan and workers’ compensation program, while maintaining excess insurance for some very large claims. We have accepted higher deductibles and self-insurance exposure in each of the last several years to offset part of the increases in premiums for the programs. These deductibles and premiums increased substantially in 2002 and 2003. The rate of increase in deductibles and premiums has moderated somewhat, but there have still been increases, and there may be larger increases in the future. Our earnings could be materially and adversely affected by any of the following: • increases in premiums, deductibles and self-insurance retentions; • increases in the number of liability claims against us or the cost of settling or trying cases related to those claims; and • an inability to obtain one or more types of insurance on acceptable terms. If our board of directors does not approve an acquisition or change in control, then our shareholders may not realize the full value of their stock. We have agreed to be acquired by Fresenius Medical Care, subject to a number of conditions. The merger agreement includes provisions that would make it difficult for a competing bidder to acquire Renal Care Group. These provisions include our agreements not to solicit other offers and not to provide information to a potential bidder, as well as our agreement to pay a termination fee to Fresenius Medical Care if we terminate the merger agreement and complete another transaction. In addition, our certificate of 25 Table of Contents incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control that is not first approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our shareholders receive an attractive offer for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain approval from our board of directors before pursuing a transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control include the following: • a staggered board of directors that would require two annual meetings to replace a majority of the board of directors; • restrictions on calling special meetings at which an acquisition or change in control might be brought to a vote of the shareholders; • blank check preferred stock that may be issued by our board of directors without shareholder approval and that may be substantially dilutive or contain preferences or rights objectionable to an acquirer; and • a poison pill that would substantially dilute the interest sought by an acquirer. These provisions could also discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our stock price is volatile and as a result, the value of your investment may go down for reasons unrelated to the performance of our business. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, ranging from a low closing price of $35.60 per share to a high closing price of $47.44 per share during the year ended December 31, 2005. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • the failure to complete the transaction with Fresenius Medical Care; • future announcements concerning us, our competitors or the health care market; • the threat, commencement or outcome of litigation or government investigation; • changes in government regulations; and • changes in earnings estimates by analysts. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in demand or reimbursement levels for our services and general economic, political and market conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Forward-Looking Statements Some of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K represents forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate” and “continue” or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully for the following reasons: • the statements discuss our future expectations; • the statements contain projections of our future earnings or of our financial condition; and • the statements state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our investors. There may, however, be events in the future that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed above, as well as any cautionary language in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may 26 Table of Contents cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. The SEC allows us to “incorporate by reference” the information we file with them, which means we can disclose important information to you by referring you to those documents. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the above risk factors, elsewhere in or incorporated by reference into this quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition and business. If the events described above or other unpredicted events occur, then the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 