Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report. If any of the identified risks actually occurs, or is adversely resolved, the Company’s consolidated financial statements could be materially, adversely impacted in a particular fiscal quarter or year and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially. As a result, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in the Company. If we are not able to continue profitably opening new stores, our growth may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our growth has resulted and is expected to continue to result from the opening of new stores. While we believe that we will continue to be able to obtain suitable locations for new stores, negotiate acceptable lease terms, hire qualified personnel and open and operate new stores on a timely and profitable basis, we cannot make any such assurances. As we continue our expansion program, the proposed expansion may place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our financial performance. The opening of new stores may adversely affect catalog and Internet sales and profits. In addition, the opening of new stores in existing markets may adversely affect sales and profits of established stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through use of existing cash, cash flows from operations and, if needed, by borrowings under our line of credit. However, if we experience limitations on our ability to utilize these sources of liquidity, our performance declines or other factors so dictate, we may slow or discontinue store openings. If we fail to successfully implement our expansion program, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition and may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or profitability. The retail apparel business is highly competitive and is expected to remain so. We compete primarily with specialty and discount store chains, independent retailers, national and local department stores, Internet retail stores and other catalogers engaged in the retail sale of men’s apparel, and to a lesser degree with other apparel retailers. Many of these competitors are much larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In many cases, our primary competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls or retail centers as our stores. Moreover, in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls and retail centers. We believe that our emphasis on classic styles make our business less vulnerable to changes in merchandise trends than many apparel retailers; however, our sales and profitability depend upon the continued demand for our classic styles. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; • developing innovative, high-quality new products and/or product/brand extensions in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; • competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. Increased competition or our failure to meet these competitive challenges could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our business is tied to consumer spending for discretionary items and negative changes to consumer confidence could have an adverse affect on our business. Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions, consumer confidence and the levels of disposable consumer income which is impacted by consumer debt, interest rates and gasoline and energy costs, among other factors. Consumer confidence may be adversely affected by national and international security concerns such as war, terrorism or the threat of war or terrorism. In addition, because apparel and accessories generally are discretionary purchases, declines in consumer spending patterns may impact us more negatively as a specialty retailer and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependant on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the contributions of our senior management team. In addition, our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing merchandise trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other departments. We face intense competition in hiring and retaining these personnel. If we fail to retain and motivate our current personnel and attract new personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely heavily on a limited number of key suppliers, the loss of any of which could cause a significant disruption to our business and negatively affect our business. Historically, we have purchased a substantial portion of our products from a limited number of suppliers throughout the world. The loss of any one of these suppliers or any significant interruption in our product supply, such as manufacturing problems or shipping delays, could have an adverse effect on our business due to lost sales, cancellation charges, excessive markdowns or delays in finding alternative sources, and could result in increased costs. Although we have not experienced any material disruptions in our sourcing in the past several years any significant disruption of supply from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on foreign sources of production exposes us to a number of risks of doing business on an international basis. We expect to continue our sourcing to suppliers throughout the world, which may result in additional concentration of our sources. As a result, we face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including: • political instability of foreign countries; • imposition of new legislation or rules relating to imports that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries or regions; • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity; • migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced; • potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts; • volatile fuel supplies and costs; and; • the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the foreign currencies of our suppliers’ countries could adversely affect our product costs. Any significant disruption of production from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if the foreign manufacturers of our products do not use acceptable labor practices. We require manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our staff and agents periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by these independent manufacturers could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us. The divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could damage our reputation, which may result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores, as well as purchasing through our catalogs and Internet site, and therefore could adversely affect our sales, net earnings, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by increased costs of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business. Our products are manufactured using several key raw materials, including wool and cotton, which are subject to fluctuations in price and availability. We purchase the raw materials for approximately 11% of our finished products, of which five vendors accounted for over 79% of the raw materials purchased directly by us in fiscal year 2007. The remainder of our finished products are purchased as finished units, with the vendor responsible for the acquisition of the raw materials. Changes in raw materials costs to the vendors or to us may impact the long-term cost of our finished products. Fuel costs and labor costs could also have an adverse impact on our vendors’ manufacturing costs and on our freight and other costs. Any significant fluctuations in price or availability of our raw materials and other resources or any significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to meet the changing preferences of our customers. We must successfully gauge merchandise trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. Our success is dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The retail clothing business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion, performance, luxury and seasonality. To the extent the market for our merchandise weakens, sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in the demand for tailored and casual clothing and accessories affect our inventory levels. As our business is becoming more seasonal in nature, we must carry a significant amount of inventory prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. We issue purchase orders for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing merchandise trends or consumer acceptance for our products. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the volume of retail traffic in our geographic locations and the availability of suitable lease space. Many of our stores are located in shopping malls or retail centers. Sales at these stores are affected, in part, by the volume of traffic in those malls and retail centers. Our sales volume and mall or retail center traffic may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area and the closing of nearby stores. In addition, a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment in a particular mall or retail center, or a decline in the popularity of mall shopping or retail center among our target consumers, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs that allow us to maintain our profitability. We cannot be sure as to when or whether desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. In addition, we must be able to renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our failure to secure favorable locations and lease terms generally, and upon renewal, could result in our loss of market share and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our dependence on third party delivery services exposes us to business interruptions and service issues that are beyond our control. The success of our stores is impacted by our timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution facilities, and the success of our Direct Marketing segment is impacted by the timely delivery of merchandise to our customers. Third party transportation companies deliver our merchandise to substantially all of our stores and our customers. Some of these third parties employ personnel represented by a labor union. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. We may be required to respond in a number of ways, many of which could decrease our gross profits and net income and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our dependence on our centralized distribution centers and centralized computer systems exposes us to the risk of a substantial disruption to our business. We centralize the distribution of our products in two adjacent distribution centers located in Hampstead, Maryland. Substantially all of the merchandise that we purchase is shipped directly to these distribution centers, where the merchandise is prepared for shipment to our stores or our customers. If these distribution centers were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. As a result, we could incur longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores and customers and significantly higher operating costs during the period prior to and after our reopening or replacing these distribution centers. In addition, we are increasingly dependent on the Internet and centralized computer systems and networks (collectively, “Systems”) to process and transmit transactions and to store electronic information. It is critical that we maintain uninterrupted access to and operation of the Systems. The Systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and other natural disasters. If the Systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may suffer interruptions in our operations and we may have to make significant investment to fix or replace them. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution centers or Systems are shut down for any reason. Such shut-downs could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by increased paper, printing and mailing costs Increases in postal rates, paper or printing costs would affect the cost of producing and distributing our catalog and promotional mailings and sales and marketing expenses. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. The unavailability of these discounts, as well as increases in future paper, printing and postal costs could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to offset these increases by raising prices or by implementing more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or protect ourselves from the claims of third-parties may not be effective. Our trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. We are the owner or exclusive licensee in the United States of the marks JOS. A. BANK®, JOS. A. BANK V.I.P.®, JOS. A. BANK VACATION IN PARADISE®, VACATION IN PARADISE®, and THE MIRACLE COLLECTION®, each of which is registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or other infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. The actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products in violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to the marks that we license and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Our failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or protect ourselves from the claims of third parties could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to a number of risks involving the acceptance and processing of credit cards, the occurrence of which could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acceptance of credit cards at our stores and through our catalog and Internet channels necessarily involves the gathering and storage of sensitive, personal information regarding our customers. Although we believe our systems are sound, no system is completely invulnerable to attack or loss of data. A loss of data could subject us to financial and legal risks, as well as diminish our reputation and customer loyalty. Further, our continued ability to accept and process credit cards is dependent, in part, on our contractual relationships with our acquiring bank (i.e. the bank at which we maintain our account for collecting credit card payments from customers) and our credit card processor (i.e. the third party that submits on our behalf credit card transactions to our acquiring bank). Any disruption or change in these contractual relationships could interrupt our business or increase our costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks, or other risks associated with the acceptance and processing of credit cards, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a number of risks relating to our use of consumer information. We maintain a customer database which is important to our marketing efforts. Any limitations imposed on the use of this consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activity. In addition, to the extent that our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand, in addition to the negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business has become increasingly dependent on a strong holiday season. Our net sales, net income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and therefore the results for one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. During the fourth quarters of fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007, we generated approximately 53%, 58% and 53%, respectively, of our annual net income, which resulted, in part, from increased traffic during the holiday season and our increased marketing efforts during this peak selling time. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, major winter storms could negatively impact our sales and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will face a number of risks if we pursue growth by acquisitions or other strategic opportunities. We may from time to time hold discussions and negotiations regarding strategic opportunities, including with (i) potential investors who express an interest in making an investment in or acquiring us, (ii) potential joint venture partners looking toward the formation of strategic alliances and (iii) companies that represent potential acquisition or investment opportunities for us. We cannot assure you that any definitive agreement will be reached regarding the foregoing, nor do we believe that any such agreement is necessary to implement successfully our strategic plans. Pursuing growth by acquisitions or other strategic opportunities will expose us to the various risks that arise there from, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The following, among other factors, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate: • Our sales and profitability results and those of others in the retail industry; • Anticipation regarding our future operating results and those generally operating in the retail industry; and • Changes in earnings estimates by research analysts. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our common stock, as well as that of other companies, including our competitors, and which may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of these other companies. Our charter documents, our Rights Agreement and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, our Rights Agreement and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our Rights Agreement has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, this premium may not be realized or the market price of our common stock could decline. 15 Table of Contents Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and could divert our management’s attention and thus negatively affect our financial results We are subject to various litigation and legal proceedings and claims (collectively, “Legal Matters”), including those identified in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Although we intend to defend the identified matters vigorously, we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. Regardless of their merit, Legal Matters may result in a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could be disruptive to our operations. In addition, costs and potential losses associated with Legal Matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 