Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS A. GENERAL DESCRIPTION Heartland Financial USA, Inc. ("Heartland"), reincorporated in the state of Delaware in 1993, is a multi-bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHCA"). Heartland has eight bank subsidiaries in the states of Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Arizona, and Montana, collectively, the "Bank Subsidiaries"). All eight Bank Subsidiaries are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The Bank Subsidiaries listed below operate a total of 50 banking locations. * Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, Dubuque, Iowa, is chartered under the laws of the State of Iowa. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company has two wholly-owned subsidiaries: DB&T Insurance, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency and DB&T Community Development Corp., a partner in low-income housing and historic rehabilitation projects. * Galena State Bank and Trust Company, Galena, Illinois, is chartered under the laws of the State of Illinois. * First Community Bank, Keokuk, Iowa, is chartered under the laws of the State of Iowa. * Riverside Community Bank, Rockford, Illinois, is chartered under the laws of the State of Illinois. * Wisconsin Community Bank, Cottage Grove, Wisconsin, is chartered under the laws of the State of Wisconsin. * New Mexico Bank & Trust, Albuquerque, New Mexico, is chartered under the laws of the State of New Mexico. * Rocky Mountain Bank, Billings, Montana, is chartered under the laws of the State of Montana. * Arizona Bank & Trust, Chandler, Arizona, is chartered under the laws of the State of Arizona. Heartland has nine non-bank subsidiaries as listed below. * Citizens Finance Co. is a consumer finance company with offices in Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin. * ULTEA, Inc. is a fleet leasing company headquartered in Madison, Wisconsin. * HTLF Capital Corp. is an investment banking firm specializing in taxable and tax-exempt municipal financing headquartered in Denver, Colorado. * Heartland Community Development Corp. is a certified community development entity with accountability to low-income communities in the Dubuque, Iowa, service area. * Heartland Financial Statutory Trust II, Heartland Financial Capital Trust II, Heartland Financial Statutory Trust III, Heartland Financial Statutory Trust IV, and Rocky Mountain Statutory Trust I are special purpose trust subsidiaries of Heartland formed for the purpose of the offering of cumulative capital securities. All of Heartland’s subsidiaries are wholly-owned, except for Arizona Bank & Trust, of which Heartland owned 86% of the capital stock on December 31, 2005. The Bank Subsidiaries provide full service retail banking in the communities in which they are located. Deposit products offered by the Bank Subsidiaries include checking and other demand deposit accounts, NOW accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, individual retirement accounts, health savings accounts and other time deposits. The deposits in the Bank Subsidiaries are insured by the FDIC to the full extent permitted by law. Loans include commercial and industrial, agricultural, real estate mortgage, consumer, home equity, credit cards and lines of credit. Other products and services include VISA debit cards, automated teller machines, on-line banking, safe deposit boxes and trust services. The principal service of the Bank Subsidiaries consists of making loans to and accepting deposits from businesses and individuals. These loans are made at the offices of the Bank Subsidiaries. The Bank Subsidiaries also engage in activities that are closely related to banking, including investment brokerage. Operating Strategy Heartland’s operating strategy is based upon a community banking model with three major components: 1. Develop strong community banks: * Establish community bank names and images * Encourage community involvement and leadership * Maintain active boards of directors chosen from the local community * Retain local presidents and decision-making 2. Provide resources for revenue enhancement: * Develop and implement a wide array of financial products and services for all Bank Subsidiaries * Improve Bank Subsidiary funding costs by reducing higher-cost certificates of deposit; increasing the percentage of lower-cost transaction accounts such as checking, savings and money market accounts; emphasizing relationship banking and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities * Emphasize greater use of non-traditional sources of income, including trust and investment services, insurance, consumer finance, vehicle leasing and fleet management, and investment banking * Evaluate and acquire state-of-the-art technology when the expected return justifies the cost 3. Provide customer-transparent cost savings: * Centralize back office support functions so Bank Subsidiaries operate as efficiently as possible Management believes the personal and professional service offered to customers provides an appealing alternative to the "megabanks" resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry. While Heartland employs a community banking philosophy, management believes Heartland’s size, combined with its complete line of financial products and services, is sufficient to effectively compete in the respective market areas. To remain price competitive, management also believes Heartland must manage expenses and gain economies of scale by centralizing back office support functions. Although each of Heartland’s subsidiaries operates under the direction of its own board of directors, Heartland has standard operating policies regarding asset/liability management, liquidity management, investment management, lending policies, and deposit structure management. Another component of the operating strategy is to encourage all directors, officers and employees to maintain a strong ownership interest in Heartland. Since 1996, Heartland has provided an employee stock purchase plan. For the year ended December 31, 2005, employees purchased 14,268 shares under the plan. As of December 31, 2005, employees, officers, and directors owned approximately 25% of Heartland’s outstanding common stock. Acquisition and Expansion Strategy Heartland’s strategy is to increase profitability and diversify its market area and asset base by expanding existing subsidiaries, by establishing de novo banks and through acquisitions. Heartland continually seeks and evaluates opportunities to establish branches, loan production offices, or other business facilities as a means of expanding its presence in current or new market areas. Heartland acquires established financial services organizations, primarily commercial banks or thrifts, when suitable candidates are identified and acceptable business terms can be negotiated. Heartland has also formed de novo banking institutions in locations determined to have market potential and suitable management candidates with banking expertise and a philosophy similar to Heartland’s. Heartland has focused on markets with growth potential in the Midwest and Western regions of the United States as it evaluates expansion and acquisition opportunities. In August 2003, Heartland and a group of investors opened Arizona Bank & Trust, a de novo banking operation, followed with a second location in 2004 and a third location in 2005. Additional expansion at Arizona Bank & Trust includes the announcement in January 2006 of an agreement to acquire Bank of the Southwest, a financial institution providing retail and commercial banking services in Phoenix and Tempe, Arizona. Heartland expects to combine the acquired assets and deposit accounts into Arizona Bank & Trust. Subject to approvals by bank regulatory authorities and shareholders, the transaction is expected to close during the second quarter of 2006. Heartland took another step toward expanding its Western presence in June of 2004 when it acquired Rocky Mountain Bancorporation, Inc., the one-bank holding company of Rocky Mountain Bank. Headquartered in Billings, Montana, Rocky Mountain Bank had assets of $385 million at December 31, 2005, with nine branch locations throughout the state. In August of 2005, Heartland announced the addition of a loan production office in Denver, Colorado and its hopes to use this office as a springboard to opening its ninth full-service state chartered bank during the second quarter of 2006. The capital structure of this new bank, to be named Summit Bank & Trust, is anticipated to be very similar to that used when Arizona Bank & Trust was formed. Heartland’s expected initial investment would be $12.0 million, or 80% of the targeted $15.0 million initial capital. One of Heartland’s strategic goals is to expand its presence in the Western markets to 50% of Heartland’s total assets, thereby balancing the growth in its Western markets with the stability of the Midwestern markets. Heartland looks for opportunities outside the community banks and thrift categories when its board of directors and management determine the opportunities will provide a desirable strategic fit without posing undue risk. In this regard, Heartland established HTLF Capital Corp. in April 2003. HTLF Capital is an investment banking firm that specializes in taxable and tax-exempt municipal financing, either by providing direct investment on behalf of Heartland and its Bank Subsidiaries or by acting as a financial advisor for a variety of municipal transactions. Lending Activities General The Bank Subsidiaries provide a range of commercial and retail lending services to businesses and individuals. These credit activities include agricultural, commercial, residential real estate, consumer loans and commercial leases. The Bank Subsidiaries aggressively market their services to qualified lending customers. Lending officers actively solicit the business of new companies entering their market areas as well as long-standing members of the Bank Subsidiaries' respective business communities. Through professional service, competitive pricing, and innovative structure, the Bank Subsidiaries have been successful in attracting new lending customers. Heartland also actively pursues consumer lending opportunities. With convenient locations, advertising and customer communications, the Bank Subsidiaries have been successful in capitalizing on the credit needs of their market areas. Commercial Loans The Bank Subsidiaries have a strong commercial loan base, with significant growth coming from Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, New Mexico Bank & Trust, Wisconsin Community Bank, and Arizona Bank & Trust. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, in particular, continues to be a premier commercial lender in the tri-state area of northeast Iowa, northwest Illinois and southwest Wisconsin. The Bank Subsidiaries' current portfolios include, but are not limited to, loans to wholesalers, hospitality industry, real estate developers, manufacturers, building contractors, business services companies and retailers. The Bank Subsidiaries provide a wide range of business loans, including lines of credit for working capital and operational purposes and term loans for the acquisition of equipment and real estate. Although most loans are made on a secured basis, loans may be made on an unsecured basis where warranted by the overall financial condition of the borrower. Terms of commercial business loans generally range from one to five years. Bank Subsidiaries continue to seek opportunities to expand the production of loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. Wisconsin Community Bank is designated as a Preferred Lender by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Wisconsin Community Bank is also the only lender in Wisconsin to be granted USDA Certified Lender status for the USDA Rural Development Business and Industry loan program and was one of the top ten lenders in the nation in this program for the past three years. Management believes that making these guaranteed loans helps its local communities as well as provides Heartland with a source of income and solid future lending relationships as such businesses grow and prosper. The Bank Subsidiaries’ commercial loans and leases are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The collateral support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and leases and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. The primary repayment risks of commercial loans and leases are that the cash flows of the borrower may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Heartland understands the roles that sound credit skills and a common credit culture play in maintaining quality loan portfolios. As the credit portfolios of the Bank Subsidiaries have continued to grow, several changes have been made in their lending departments resulting in an overall increase in these departments' skill levels. In 2003, Heartland introduced the RMA Diagnostic Assessment to assess credit skills and training needs for over 80 of its credit personnel. After the initial introduction of this training tool, specific individualized training was established for existing personnel. All new lending personnel are expected to complete a similar diagnostic training program. Heartland also assists all of the member banks’ commercial and agricultural lenders in the analysis and underwriting of credit through its staff in the credit administration department. This staff continues to expand as the total loans under management continue to grow. Commercial lenders interact with their respective boards of directors each month. Heartland also utilizes an internal loan review function to analyze credits of the Bank Subsidiaries and to provide periodic reports to the respective boards of directors. Management has attempted to identify problem loans at an early date and to aggressively seek resolution of these situations. Agricultural Loans Agricultural loans are emphasized by Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, Rocky Mountain Bank, Wisconsin Community Bank’s Monroe banking center and New Mexico Bank & Trust’s Clovis banking offices. The Bank Subsidiaries that emphasize agricultural loans do so because of their location in or around rural markets. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company maintains its status as one of the largest agricultural lenders in the State of Iowa. Agricultural loans remain balanced in proportion to the rest of Heartland's loan portfolio, constituting approximately 12% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2005. Heartland’s policies designate a primary and secondary lending area for each bank with the majority of outstanding agricultural operating and real estate loans to customers located within the primary lending area. Term loans secured by real estate are allowed within the secondary lending area. Agricultural loans, many of which are secured by crops, machinery and real estate, are provided to finance capital improvements and farm operations as well as acquisitions of livestock and machinery. The ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower’s control including adverse weather conditions, loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of government regulations. The ultimate repayment of agricultural loans is dependent upon the profitable operation or management of the agricultural entity. The agricultural loan departments work closely with all of their customers, including companies and individual farmers, and review the preparation of budgets and cash flow projections for the ensuing crop year. These budgets and cash flow projections are monitored closely during the year and reviewed with the customers at least once annually. The Bank Subsidiaries also work closely with governmental agencies, including the Farmers Home Administration, to help agricultural customers obtain credit enhancement products such as loan guarantees or interest assistance. Residential Real Estate Mortgage Loans Mortgage lending remains a focal point for the Bank Subsidiaries as each of them continues to build real estate lending business. As long-term interest rates remained at low levels during 2005 and 2004, many customers elected mortgage loans that are fixed rate with fifteen or thirty year maturities. Heartland usually sells these loans into the secondary market but retains servicing on the majority of sold loans. Management believes that mortgage servicing on sold loans provides the Bank Subsidiaries with a relatively steady source of fee income compared to fees generated solely from mortgage origination operations. Moreover, the retention of servicing gives the Bank Subsidiaries the opportunity to maintain regular contact with mortgage loan customers. As with agricultural and commercial loans, Heartland encourages the Bank Subsidiaries to participate in lending programs sponsored by U.S. government agencies when justified by market conditions. Beginning in 2004, Veterans Administration and Federal Home Administration loans were offered in all Bank Subsidiary markets. Consumer Lending The Bank Subsidiaries' consumer lending departments provide all types of consumer loans including motor vehicle, home improvement, home equity, credit cards and small personal credit lines. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms, lower balances, higher yields and higher risks of default than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and are therefore more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Citizens Finance Co. specializes in consumer lending and currently serves the consumer credit needs of approximately 5,800 customers in Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin from its Dubuque, Iowa; Madison and Appleton, Wisconsin; and Loves Park and Crystal Lake, Illinois offices. Citizens Finance Co. typically lends to borrowers with past credit problems or limited credit histories. Heartland expects to incur a higher level of credit losses on Citizens Finance Co. loans compared to consumer loans originated by the Bank Subsidiaries. Correspondingly, returns on these loans are anticipated to be higher than those at the Bank Subsidiaries. Trust and Investment Services Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, Galena State Bank and Trust Company and Wisconsin Community Bank have been offering trust and investment services in their respective communities for many years. In those markets which do not yet warrant a full trust department, the sales and administration is performed by Dubuque Bank and Trust Company personnel. In 2005, New Mexico Bank & Trust began offering trust and investment services. In 2003, Arizona Bank & Trust joined the list of banks offering trust and investment services. On August 31, 2004, Heartland completed its acquisition of the Wealth Management Group of Colonial Trust Company, a publicly held Arizona trust company based in Phoenix. The Wealth Management Group, Colonial Trust Company’s personal trust division, had trust assets of $154.0 million and projected annual revenues of $1.2 million at August 31, 2004. This transaction provided a unique opportunity for Heartland to grow its trust business in the Southwestern marketplace. Colonial’s seasoned management team and strong account base, combined with Heartland’s strong support services, depth of expertise, and long track record of investment performance should prove to be a winning combination as we seek to elevate the profile of our newest subsidiary bank, Arizona Bank & Trust. As of December 31, 2005, total Heartland trust assets exceeded $1.3 billion, the vast majority of which are assets under management. Collectively, the Bank Subsidiaries provide a full complement of trust and investment services for individuals and corporations. All of the Bank Subsidiaries have targeted their trust departments as primary areas for future growth. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company is nationally recognized as a leading provider of socially responsible investment services, and it manages investment portfolios for religious and other non-profit organizations located throughout the United States. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company is also Heartland’s lead bank in providing daily valuation 401(k) plans and other retirement services, including Heartland’s retirement plans for its employees. Heartland has formed a strategic alliance with Independent Financial Marketing Group, Inc. to operate independent securities offices at all of Heartland’s bank subsidiaries. Through Independent Financial Marketing Group, Inc., Heartland offers a full array of investment services including mutual funds, annuities, retirement products, education savings products, brokerage services, employer sponsored plans, and insurance products. A complete line of vehicle, property and casualty, life and disability insurance and tax-free annuities are also offered by Heartland through DB&T Insurance. B. MARKET AREAS Dubuque Bank and Trust Company Dubuque Bank and Trust Company and Heartland are located in Dubuque County, Iowa, which encompasses the city of Dubuque and a number of surrounding rural communities. Citizens Finance Co. also operates within this market area, in addition to operating offices in Madison, Wisconsin; Appleton, Wisconsin; Loves Park, Illinois; and Crystal Lake, Illinois. The city of Dubuque is located in northeastern Iowa, on the Mississippi River, approximately 175 miles west of Chicago, Illinois, and approximately 200 miles northeast of Des Moines, Iowa. It is strategically situated at the intersection of the state borders of Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin. Based upon the results of the 2000 census, the city of Dubuque had a total population of approximately 58,000. The principal offices of Heartland and Dubuque Bank and Trust Company’s main bank currently occupy the same building. Due to growth in both companies, a building was acquired directly across the street from Dubuque Bank and Trust Company’s main office to serve as an operations center for Heartland. Renovation of the 60,000 square foot building was completed in the second quarter of 2004. In addition to its main banking office, Dubuque Bank and Trust Company operates seven branch offices, all of which are located in Dubuque County. In 2004 Dubuque Bank and Trust Company opened a branch facility at a strategically located intersection on the rapidly growing northwest side of Dubuque. Additionally, during 2003, Dubuque Bank and Trust Company relocated its branch facility in Farley, Iowa, to a newly constructed building that is more convenient for its customers. As a subsidiary of Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, DB&T Insurance has substantially the same market area as the parent organization. Galena State Bank and Trust Company Galena State Bank and Trust Company is located in Galena, Illinois, which is less than five miles from the Mississippi River, approximately 20 miles east of Dubuque and 155 miles west of Chicago. Galena operates a second office in Stockton, Illinois. Both offices are located in Jo Daviess County, which has a population of approximately 22,000, according to the 2000 census. First Community Bank First Community Bank’s main office is in Keokuk, Iowa, which is located in the southeast corner of Iowa near the borders of Iowa, Missouri and Illinois. Due to its location, First Community Bank serves customers in the tri-county region of Lee County, Iowa; Hancock County, Illinois; and Clark County, Missouri. First Community Bank has one branch office in Keokuk and another branch in the city of Carthage in Hancock County, Illinois. Keokuk is an industrial community with a population of approximately 11,000, and the population of Lee County is approximately 38,000. Riverside Community Bank Riverside Community Bank is located on the northeast edge of Rockford, Illinois, which is approximately 75 miles west of Chicago in Winnebago County. In addition to its main banking office, Riverside Community Bank has three branch offices, all of which are located in the Winnebago County area. Based on the 2000 census, the county had a population of 278,000, and the city of Rockford had a population of 150,000. Wisconsin Community Bank Wisconsin Community Bank’s main office is located in Cottage Grove, Wisconsin, which is approximately 10 miles east of Madison in Dane County. Wisconsin Community Bank operates two branch offices in Madison suburbs. The Middleton branch opened in 1998, and an office in Fitchburg was opened in a newly constructed building in March 2003. According to the 2000 census, Dane County had a population of 427,000, and the village of Cottage Grove had a population of 3,800. Wisconsin Community Bank opened three offices in Sheboygan, DePere and Eau Claire, Wisconsin during 1999, operating under the name of Wisconsin Business Bank. The Sheboygan and DePere facilities are located in the northeastern Wisconsin counties of Sheboygan and Brown. The Eau Claire office was subsequently sold in the fourth quarter of 2002. In 2003, Wisconsin Community Bank opened a loan production office in Minneapolis, Minnesota, operating under the name of Wisconsin Business Bank. This office focuses on providing government guaranteed financing to businesses located in the Western region of the United States. During 2004, Wisconsin Business Bank changed its name to Heartland Business Bank in conjunction with its opening of a loan production office in Rockland, Massachusetts. Wisconsin Community Bank also acquired the Bank One Monroe Wisconsin banking center in July of 1999. The city of Monroe, which is approximately 50 miles southwest of Madison, is located in Green County in south central Wisconsin. New Mexico Bank & Trust New Mexico Bank & Trust operates seven offices in or around Albuquerque, New Mexico, in Bernalillo County. Based upon the 2000 census, the county had a population of 557,000, and the city had a population of 449,000. New Mexico Bank & Trust also operates five locations in the New Mexico communities of Clovis, Portales, and Melrose, all located in Curry County. Clovis is located in east central New Mexico, approximately 220 miles from Albuquerque, 100 miles northwest of Lubbock, Texas, and 105 miles southwest of Amarillo, Texas. In 2003 two branch offices were opened in Santa Fe, in Santa Fe County. Arizona Bank & Trust Arizona Bank & Trust currently operates three offices; one in Phoenix which opened in 2005, one in Mesa, Arizona, which is located 15 miles east of Phoenix and the main office in Chandler, Arizona, which is located in the southern portion of metropolitan Phoenix. Both cities are located in Maricopa County. Chandler’s current population is 218,000, as provided by the City of Chandler Office of Economic Development, compared to 177,000 reported in the 2000 census. The estimated population of Maricopa County in July 2001 was 3,029,000, according to the Arizona Department of Economic Security. Rocky Mountain Bank Rocky Mountain Bank operates from nine locations throughout the state of Montana. Rocky Mountain Bank’s main office is in Billings which is the state’s largest city and an agricultural, retail and business center. Billings is also the county seat of Yellowstone County within south-central Montana along Interstate-90. Based upon the 2000 census, the county had a population of 129,000 and the city had a population of 126,000. Six of the locations are spread primarily along the western corridor of the state of Montana. Kalispell was the most recent branch addition in 2005. Bigfork is located in Flathead County, 15 miles southeast of Kalispell along Highway 206. Bigfork is near the Big Mountain Ski Resort and Blacktail Ski Area. Bozeman is the county seat of Gallatin County and is 82 miles east of Butte on Interstate-90. Bozeman has a population of 30,000 and is the fifth largest city in Montana. Plains is located in Sanders County, on Route 200 near the Discovery Ski Basin Area. Stevensville is located in Ravalli County, 28 miles south of Missoula on Highway 93. Whitehall is located in Jefferson County, off Interstate-90 between Butte and Three Forks. Two of the locations are on the eastern side of Montana. Broadus is the county seat of Powder River County, and lies 77 miles south of Miles City close to the Wyoming state line along Highway 212. Plentywood is the county seat for Sheridan County and located 16 miles south of the Canadian border between the cities of Archer and Antelope on Highways 5 and 15. C. COMPETITION Heartland encounters competition in all areas of its business pursuits. To compete effectively, develop its market base, maintain flexibility, and keep pace with changing economic and social conditions, Heartland continuously refines and develops its products and services. The principal methods of competing in the financial services industry are through price, service and convenience. The Bank Subsidiaries' market areas are highly competitive. Many financial institutions based in the communities surrounding the Bank Subsidiaries actively compete for customers within Heartland's market area. The Bank Subsidiaries also face competition from finance companies, insurance companies, mortgage companies, securities brokerage firms, money market funds, loan production offices and other providers of financial services. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, effective in 2000, securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act significantly changed the competitive environment in which Heartland and the Bank Subsidiaries conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. Heartland competes for loans principally through the range and quality of the services it provides, with an emphasis on building long-lasting relationships. Our strategy is to delight our customers through excellence in customer service and needs-based selling. We become their trusted financial advisor. Heartland believes that its long-standing presence in the community and personal service philosophy enhance its ability to compete favorably in attracting and retaining individual and business customers. Heartland actively solicits deposit-oriented clients and competes for deposits by offering its customers personal attention, professional service and competitive interest rates. D. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2005, Heartland employed 909 full-time equivalent employees. Heartland places a high priority on staff development, which involves extensive training in a variety of areas, including customer service training. New employees are selected based upon their technical skills and customer service capabilities. None of Heartland's employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Heartland offers a variety of employee benefits, and management considers its employee relations to be excellent. E. INTERNET ACCESS Heartland maintains an Internet site at www.htlf.com. Heartland offers its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act free of charge from its web site as soon as reasonably practical after meeting the electronic filing requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. F. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION General Financial institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates are extensively regulated under federal and state law. As a result, the growth and earnings performance of Heartland may be affected not only by management decisions and general economic conditions, but also by the requirements of federal and state statutes and by the regulations and policies of various bank regulatory authorities, including the Iowa Superintendent of Banking (the “Iowa Superintendent”), the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (the “Illinois DFPR”), the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division (the “New Mexico FID”), the Montana Financial Institution Division (the “Montana Division”), the Division of Banking of the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions (the “Wisconsin DFI”), the Arizona State Banking Department (the “Arizona Department”), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”). Furthermore, taxation laws administered by the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities and securities laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and state securities authorities have an impact on the business of Heartland. The effect of these statutes, regulations and regulatory policies may be significant, and cannot be predicted with a high degree of certainty. Federal and state laws and regulations generally applicable to financial institutions regulate, among other things, the scope of business, the kinds and amounts of investments, reserve requirements, capital levels relative to operations, the nature and amount of collateral for loans, the establishment of branches, mergers and consolidations and the payment of dividends. This system of supervision and regulation establishes a comprehensive framework for the respective operations of Heartland and its subsidiaries and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC-insured deposits and depositors of the Bank Subsidiaries, rather than shareholders. The following is a summary of the material elements of the regulatory framework that applies to Heartland and its subsidiaries. It does not describe all of the statutes, regulations and regulatory policies that apply, nor does it restate all of the requirements of those that are described. As such, the following is qualified in its entirety by reference to applicable law. Any change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies may have a material effect on the business of Heartland and its subsidiaries. The Company General. Heartland, as the sole shareholder of Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, New Mexico Bank & Trust, Rocky Mountain Bank, Wisconsin Community Bank, Galena State Bank and Trust Company, Riverside Community Bank and First Community Bank and the controlling shareholder of Arizona Bank & Trust, is a bank holding company. As a bank holding company, Heartland is registered with, and is subject to regulation by, the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”). In accordance with Federal Reserve policy, Heartland is expected to act as a source of financial strength to the Bank Subsidiaries and to commit resources to support the Bank Subsidiaries in circumstances where Heartland might not otherwise do so. Under the BHCA, Heartland is subject to periodic examination by the Federal Reserve. Heartland is also required to file with the Federal Reserve periodic reports of Heartland’s operations and such additional information regarding Heartland and its subsidiaries as the Federal Reserve may require. Acquisitions, Activities and Change in Control. The primary purpose of a bank holding company is to control and manage banks. The BHCA generally requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for any merger involving a bank holding company or any acquisition by a bank holding company of another bank or bank holding company. Subject to certain conditions (including certain deposit concentration limits established by the BHCA), the Federal Reserve may allow a bank holding company to acquire banks located in any state of the United States. In approving interstate acquisitions, the Federal Reserve is required to give effect to applicable state law limitations on the aggregate amount of deposits that may be held by the acquiring bank holding company and its insured depository institution affiliates in the state in which the target bank is located (provided that those limits do not discriminate against out-of-state depository institutions or their holding companies) and state laws that require that the target bank have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) before being acquired by an out-of-state bank holding company. The BHCA generally prohibits Heartland from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank and from engaging in any business other than that of banking, managing and controlling banks or furnishing services to banks and their subsidiaries. This general prohibition is subject to a number of exceptions. The principal exception allows bank holding companies to engage in, and to own shares of companies engaged in, certain businesses found by the Federal Reserve to be “so closely related to banking ... as to be a proper incident thereto.” This authority would permit Heartland to engage in a variety of banking-related businesses, including the operation of a thrift, consumer finance, equipment leasing, the operation of a computer service bureau (including software development), and mortgage banking and brokerage. The BHCA generally does not place territorial restrictions on the domestic activities of non-bank subsidiaries of bank holding companies. Additionally, bank holding companies that meet certain eligibility requirements prescribed by the BHCA and elect to operate as financial holding companies may engage in, or own shares in companies engaged in, a wider range of nonbanking activities, including securities and insurance underwriting and sales, merchant banking and any other activity that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines by regulation or order is financial in nature, incidental to any such financial activity or complementary to any such financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. As of the date of this filing, Heartland has not applied for approval to operate as a financial holding company. Federal law also prohibits any person or company from acquiring “control” of an FDIC-insured depository institution or its holding company without prior notice to the appropriate federal bank regulator. “Control” is conclusively presumed to exist upon the acquisition of 25% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a bank or bank holding company, but may arise under certain circumstances at 10% ownership. Capital Requirements. Bank holding companies are required to maintain minimum levels of capital in accordance with Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines. If capital levels fall below the minimum required levels, a bank holding company, among other things, may be denied approval to acquire or establish additional banks or non-bank businesses. The Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines establish the following minimum regulatory capital requirements for bank holding companies: (i) a risk-based requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets weighted according to risk; and (ii) a leverage requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets. The risk-based requirement consists of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4%. The leverage requirement consists of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3% for the most highly rated companies, with a minimum requirement of 4% for all others. For purposes of these capital standards, Tier 1 capital consists primarily of permanent stockholders’ equity less intangible assets (other than certain loan servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships). Total capital consists primarily of Tier 1 capital plus certain other debt and equity instruments that do not qualify as Tier 1 capital and a portion of Heartland’s allowance for loan and lease losses. The risk-based and leverage standards described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual banking organizations. For example, the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines contemplate that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk, or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, any banking organization experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions (i.e., Tier 1 capital less all intangible assets), well above the minimum levels. As of December 31, 2005, Heartland had regulatory capital in excess of the Federal Reserve’s minimum requirements. Dividend Payments. Heartland’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders may be affected by both general corporate law considerations and policies of the Federal Reserve applicable to bank holding companies. As a Delaware corporation, Heartland is subject to the limitations of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), which allows Heartland to pay dividends only out of its surplus (as defined and computed in accordance with the provisions of the DGCL) or if Heartland has no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Additionally, policies of the Federal Reserve caution that a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income or that can only be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding company’s financial health, such as by borrowing. The Federal Reserve also possesses enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries to prevent or remedy actions that represent unsafe or unsound practices or violations of applicable statutes and regulations. Among these powers is the ability to proscribe the payment of dividends by banks and bank holding companies. Federal Securities Regulation. Heartland’s common stock is registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Consequently, Heartland is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Bank Subsidiaries General. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company and First Community Bank are Iowa-chartered banks. The deposit accounts of Dubuque Bank and Trust Company are insured by the FDIC’s Bank Insurance Fund (“BIF”), while the deposit accounts of First Community Bank are insured by the FDIC’s Savings Association Insurance Fund (“SAIF”). As Iowa-chartered banks, Dubuque Bank and Trust Company and First Community Bank are subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Iowa Superintendent, the chartering authority for Iowa banks, and the FDIC, designated by federal law as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered FDIC-insured banks that, like Dubuque Bank and Trust Company and First Community Bank, are not members of the Federal Reserve System (“non-member banks”). Galena State Bank and Trust Company and Riverside Community Bank are Illinois-chartered banks, the deposit accounts of which are insured by the BIF. As Illinois-chartered banks, Galena State Bank and Trust Company and Riverside Community Bank are subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Illinois DFPR, the chartering authority for Illinois banks, and the FDIC, as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered FDIC-insured non-member banks. New Mexico Bank & Trust is a New Mexico-chartered bank, the deposit accounts of which are insured by the BIF. As a New Mexico-chartered bank, New Mexico Bank & Trust is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the New Mexico FID, the chartering authority for New Mexico banks, and the FDIC, as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered FDIC-insured non-member banks. Rocky Mountain Bank is a Montana-chartered bank, the deposit accounts of which are insured by the BIF. As a Montana-chartered, FDIC-insured non-member bank, Rocky Mountain Bank is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirement of the Montana Division, as the chartering authority for Montana banks, and the FDIC, as the primary regulator of state-chartered FDIC-insured non-member banks. Wisconsin Community Bank is a Wisconsin-chartered bank, the deposit accounts of which are insured by the BIF. As a Wisconsin-chartered bank, Wisconsin Community Bank is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Wisconsin DFI, the chartering authority for Wisconsin banks, and the FDIC, as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered FDIC-insured non-member banks. Arizona Bank & Trust is an Arizona-chartered bank, the deposit accounts of which are insured by the BIF. As an Arizona-chartered bank, Arizona Bank & Trust is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Arizona Department, the chartering authority for Arizona banks, and the FDIC, as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered FDIC-insured non-member banks. Deposit Insurance. As FDIC-insured institutions, the Bank Subsidiaries are required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system under which all insured depository institutions are placed into one of nine categories and assessed insurance premiums based upon their respective levels of capital and results of supervisory evaluations. Institutions classified as well-capitalized (as defined by the FDIC) and considered healthy pay the lowest premium while institutions that are less than adequately capitalized (as defined by the FDIC) and considered of substantial supervisory concern pay the highest premium. Risk classification of all insured institutions is made by the FDIC for each semi-annual assessment period. During the year ended December 31, 2005, both BIF and SAIF assessments ranged from 0% of deposits to 0.27% of deposits. For the semi-annual assessment period beginning January 1, 2006, BIF and SAIF assessment rates will continue to range from 0% of deposits to 0.27% of deposits. FICO Assessments. Since 1987, a portion of the deposit insurance assessments paid by members of the FDIC’s SAIF has been used to cover interest payments due on the outstanding obligations of the Financing Corporation (“FICO”). FICO was created in 1987 to finance the recapitalization of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, the SAIF’s predecessor insurance fund. As a result of federal legislation enacted in 1996, beginning as of January 1, 1997, both SAIF members and BIF members became subject to assessments to cover the interest payments on outstanding FICO obligations until the final maturity of such obligations in 2019. These FICO assessments are in addition to amounts assessed by the FDIC for deposit insurance. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the FICO assessment rate for BIF and SAIF members was approximately 0.01% of deposits. Supervisory Assessments. Each of the Bank Subsidiaries is required to pay supervisory assessments to its respective state banking regulator to fund the operations of that agency. In general, the amount of the assessment is calculated on the basis of each institution’s total assets. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Bank Subsidiaries paid supervisory assessments totaling $371 thousand. Capital Requirements. Banks are generally required to maintain capital levels in excess of other businesses. Under federal regulations, the Bank Subsidiaries are subject to the following minimum capital standards: (i) a leverage requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3% for the most highly-rated banks with a minimum requirement of at least 4% for all others; and (ii) a risk-based capital requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4%. In general, the components of Tier 1 capital and total capital are the same as those for bank holding companies discussed above. The capital requirements described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual institutions. For example, federal regulations provide that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, federal law and regulations provide various incentives for financial institutions to maintain regulatory capital at levels in excess of minimum regulatory requirements. For example, a financial institution that is “well-capitalized” may qualify for exemptions from prior notice or application requirements otherwise applicable to certain types of activities and may qualify for expedited processing of other required notices or applications. Additionally, one of the criteria that determines a bank holding company’s eligibility to operate as a financial holding company is a requirement that all of its financial institution subsidiaries be “well-capitalized.” Under federal regulations, in order to be “well-capitalized” a financial institution must maintain a ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 10% or greater, a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 6% or greater and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 5% or greater. Federal law also provides the federal banking regulators with broad power to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The extent of the regulators’ powers depends on whether the institution in question is “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized,” in each case as defined by regulation. Depending upon the capital category to which an institution is assigned, the regulators’ corrective powers include: (i) requiring the institution to submit a capital restoration plan; (ii) limiting the institution’s asset growth and restricting its activities; (iii) requiring the institution to issue additional capital stock (including additional voting stock) or to be acquired; (iv) restricting transactions between the institution and its affiliates; (v) restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; (vi) ordering a new election of directors of the institution; (vii) requiring that senior executive officers or directors be dismissed; (viii) prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; (ix) requiring the institution to divest certain subsidiaries; (x) prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; and (xi) ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. As of December 31, 2005: (i) none of the Bank Subsidiaries was subject to a directive from its primary federal regulator to increase its capital to an amount in excess of the minimum regulatory capital requirements; (ii) each of the Bank Subsidiaries exceeded its minimum regulatory capital requirements under applicable capital adequacy guidelines; and (iii) each of the Bank Subsidiaries was “well-capitalized,” as defined by applicable regulations. Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions. Under federal law, institutions insured by the FDIC may be liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection with the default of commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions or any assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions in danger of default. Because Heartland controls each of the Bank Subsidiaries, the Bank Subsidiaries are commonly controlled for purposes of these provisions of federal law. Dividend Payments. The primary source of funds for Heartland is dividends from the Bank Subsidiaries. In general, under applicable law, none of the Bank Subsidiaries may pay dividends in excess of its respective undivided profits. The payment of dividends by any financial institution or its holding company is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and a financial institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. As described above, each of the Bank Subsidiaries exceeded its minimum capital requirements under applicable guidelines as of December 31, 2005. Further, First Community Bank may not pay dividends in an amount that would reduce its capital below the amount required for the liquidation account established in connection with First Community Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership in 1991. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $65.2 million was available to be paid as dividends by the Bank Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the availability of funds for dividends, however, the FDIC may prohibit the payment of any dividends by the Bank Subsidiaries if the agency determines such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Insider Transactions. The Bank Subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to Heartland and its subsidiaries, on investments in the stock or other securities of Heartland and its subsidiaries and the acceptance of the stock or other securities of Heartland or its subsidiaries as collateral for loans made by the Bank Subsidiaries. Certain limitations and reporting requirements are also placed on extensions of credit by each of the Bank Subsidiaries to its directors and officers, to directors and officers of Heartland and its subsidiaries, to principal shareholders of Heartland and to “related interests” of such directors, officers and principal shareholders. In addition, federal law and regulations may affect the terms upon which any person who is a director or officer of Heartland or any of its subsidiaries or a principal shareholder of Heartland may obtain credit from banks with which the Bank Subsidiaries maintain correspondent relationships. Safety and Soundness Standards. The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines that establish operational and managerial standards to promote the safety and soundness of federally insured depository institutions. The guidelines set forth standards for internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality and earnings. In general, the safety and soundness guidelines prescribe the goals to be achieved in each area, and each institution is responsible for establishing its own procedures to achieve those goals. If an institution fails to comply with any of the standards set forth in the guidelines, the institution’s primary federal regulator may require the institution to submit a plan for achieving and maintaining compliance. If an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan, or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan that has been accepted by its primary federal regulator, the regulator is required to issue an order directing the institution to cure the deficiency. Until the deficiency cited in the regulator’s order is cured, the regulator may restrict the institution’s rate of growth, require the institution to increase its capital, restrict the rates the institution pays on deposits or require the institution to take any action the regulator deems appropriate under the circumstances. Noncompliance with the standards established by the safety and soundness guidelines may also constitute grounds for other enforcement action by the federal banking regulators, including cease and desist orders and civil money penalty assessments. Branching Authority. Each of the Bank Subsidiaries has the authority, pursuant to the laws under which it is chartered, to establish branches anywhere in the state in which its main office is located, subject to the receipt of all required regulatory approvals. Federal law permits state and national banks to merge with banks in other states subject to: (i) regulatory approval; (ii) federal and state deposit concentration limits; and (iii) state law limitations requiring the merging bank to have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) prior to the merger. The establishment of new interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) is permitted only in those states the laws of which expressly authorize such expansion. State Bank Investments and Activities. Each of the Bank Subsidiaries generally is permitted to make investments and engage in activities directly or through subsidiaries as authorized by the laws of the state under which it is chartered. However, under federal law and FDIC regulations, FDIC-insured state banks are prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from making or retaining equity investments of a type, or in an amount, that are not permissible for a national bank. Federal law and FDIC regulations also prohibit FDIC-insured state banks and their subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions, from engaging as principal in any activity that is not permitted for a national bank unless the bank meets, and continues to meet, its minimum regulatory capital requirements and the FDIC determines the activity would not pose a significant risk to the deposit insurance fund of which the bank is a member. These restrictions have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material impact on the operations of the Bank Subsidiaries. Federal Reserve System. Federal Reserve regulations, as presently in effect, require depository institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts), as follows: for transaction accounts aggregating $48.3 million or less, the reserve requirement is 3% of total transaction accounts; and for transaction accounts aggregating in excess of $48.3 million, the reserve requirement is $1.215 million plus 10% of the aggregate amount of total transaction accounts in excess of $48.3 million. The first $7.8 million of otherwise reservable balances are exempted from the reserve requirements. These reserve requirements are subject to annual adjustment by the Federal Reserve. The Bank Subsidiaries are in compliance with the foregoing requirements. Recent Regulatory Developments On February 8, 2006, President Bush signed the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (“FDIRA”) into law as part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. On February 15, 2006, President Bush signed into law the technical and conforming amendments designed to implement FDIRA. FDIRA provides for legislative reforms to modernize the federal deposit insurance system. Among other things, FDIRA: (i) merges the BIF and the SAIF of the FDIC into a new Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”); (ii) allows the FDIC, after March 31, 2010, to increase deposit insurance coverage by an adjustment for inflation and requires the FDIC’s Board of Directors, not later than April 1, 2010, and every five years thereafter, to consider whether such an increase is warranted; (iii) increases the deposit insurance limit for certain employee benefit plan deposits from $100,000 to $250,000, subject to adjustments for inflation after March 31, 2010, and provides for pass-through insurance coverage for such deposits; (iv) increases the deposit insurance limit for certain retirement account deposits from $100,000 to $250,000, subject to adjustments for inflation after March 31, 2010; (v) allows the FDIC’s Board of Directors to set deposit insurance premium assessments in any amount the Board of Directors deems necessary or appropriate, after taking into account various factors specified in FDIRA; (vi) replaces the fixed designated reserve ratio of 1.25% with a reserve ratio range of 1.15%-1.50%, with the specific reserve ratio to be determined annually by the FDIC by regulation; (vii) permits the FDIC to revise the risk-based assessment system by regulation; (viii) requires the FDIC, at the end of any year in which the reserve ratio of the DIF exceeds 1.50% of estimated insured deposits, to declare a dividend payable to insured depository institutions in an amount equal to 100% of the amount held by the DIF in excess of the amount necessary to maintain the DIF’s reserve ratio at 1.50% of estimated insured deposits or to declare a dividend equal to 50% of the amount in excess of the amount necessary to maintain the reserve ratio at 1.35% if the reserve ratio is between 1.35%-1.50% of estimated insured deposits; and (ix) provides a one-time credit based upon the assessment base of the institution on December 31, 1996, to each insured depository institution that was in existence as of December 31, 1996, and paid a deposit insurance assessment prior to that date (or a successor to any such institution). The merger of the BIF and the SAIF will take effect no later than July 1, 2006, while the remaining provisions are not effective until the FDIC issues final regulations. FDIRA requires the FDIC to issue final regulations no later than 270 days after enactment: (i) designating a reserve ratio; (ii) implementing increases in deposit insurance coverage; (iii) implementing the dividend requirement; (iv) implementing the one-time assessment credit; and (v) providing for assessments in accordance with FDIRA. G. GOVERNMENTAL MONETARY POLICY AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Heartland’s earnings are affected by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve System’s monetary policies have significantly affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue doing so in the future. Changing economic and money market conditions prompted by the actions of monetary and fiscal authorities may cause changes in interest rates, credit availability, and deposit levels that are beyond Heartland’s control. Future policies of the Federal Reserve System and other authorities cannot be predicted, nor can their effect on future earnings be predicted. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the various markets that we serve. We operate over a wide area, including markets in Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, Arizona, New Mexico and Montana and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those areas. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in those areas. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond our market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income. As part of our general growth strategy, we may acquire banks and related businesses that we believe provide a strategic and geographic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; and · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire. In addition to acquisitions, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by undertaking additional de novo bank formations or branch openings. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes up to two years for new banking facilities to first achieve operational profitability, due to the impact of organization and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that we undertake additional branching and de novo bank and business formations, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Our market and growth strategy relies heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Much of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our different market areas. Because our service areas are spread over such a wide geographical area, our management headquartered in Dubuque, Iowa is dependent on the effective leadership and capabilities of the management in our local markets for the continued success of Heartland. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams and loan officers of our operating subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market area to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition in all phases of our business. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, thrifts, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Increased competition in our markets may result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. Interest rates and other conditions impact our results of operations. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations is presented at “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included under Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our credit review department. However, we cannot assure you that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. Commercial loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Commercial loans were $1.33 billion (including $961.7 million of commercial real estate loans), or approximately 67% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The other types of collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our loan portfolio has a large concentration of commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate lending is a large portion of our commercial loan portfolio. These loans were $961.7 million, or approximately 72% of our total commercial loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Although a significant portion of such loans are secured by real estate as a secondary form of collateral, adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our commercial real estate loans also include commercial construction loans, including land acquisition and development Construction, land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced based upon estimates of costs and the estimated value of the completed project. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, commercial construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. Our agricultural loans may involve a greater degree of risk than other loans, and the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower’s control. At December 31, 2005, agricultural real estate loans totaled $230.3 million, or 12%, of our total loan and lease portfolio. Payments on agricultural real estate loans are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the farm property securing the loan. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The primary crops in our market areas are corn, soybeans, peanuts and wheat. Accordingly, adverse circumstances affecting these crops could have an adverse effect on our agricultural real estate loan portfolio. We also originate agricultural operating loans. At December 31, 2005, these loans totaled $75.7 million, or 4%, of our total loan and lease portfolio. As with agricultural real estate loans, the repayment of operating loans is dependent on the successful operation or management of the farm property. Likewise, agricultural operating loans involve a greater degree of risk than lending on residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment or assets such as livestock or crops. The primary livestock in our market areas include dairy cows, hogs and feeder cattle. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. Our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans may result in lower yields and profitability. One- to four-family residential mortgage loans comprised $219.0 million, or 11%, of our loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2005, and are secured primarily by properties located in the Midwest. These loans result in lower yields and lower profitability for us and are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from his or her employment and the value of the property securing the loan. Our consumer loans generally have a higher degree of risk of default than our other loans. At December 31, 2005, consumer loans totaled $181.0 million, or 9%, of our total loan and lease portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one- to four-family residential loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on these loans. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. We established our allowance for loan losses in consultation with management of our bank subsidiaries and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.42% and as a percentage of total non-performing loans was approximately 185.37%. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the various state agencies where we have a bank presence. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. These bank regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market areas. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2005, Heartland had no unresolved staff comments. ITEM 