Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. [Reserved] Executive Officers Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS A. GENERAL DESCRIPTION Heartland Financial USA, Inc. ("Heartland"), reincorporated in the state of Delaware in 1993, is a multi-bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHCA"). Heartland has ten bank subsidiaries in the states of Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Arizona, Montana, Colorado and Minnesota, (collectively, the "Bank Subsidiaries"). All ten Bank Subsidiaries are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The Bank Subsidiaries listed below operate a total of 61 banking locations: * Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, Dubuque, Iowa, is chartered under the laws of the State of Iowa. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company has two wholly-owned subsidiaries: DB&T Insurance, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency and DB&T Community Development Corp., a partner in low-income housing and historic rehabilitation projects. * Galena State Bank & Trust Co., Galena, Illinois, is chartered under the laws of the State of Illinois. * First Community Bank, Keokuk, Iowa, is chartered under the laws of the State of Iowa. * Riverside Community Bank, Rockford, Illinois, is chartered under the laws of the State of Illinois. * Wisconsin Community Bank, Madison, Wisconsin, is chartered under the laws of the State of Wisconsin. * New Mexico Bank & Trust, Albuquerque, New Mexico, is chartered under the laws of the State of New Mexico. * Rocky Mountain Bank, Billings, Montana, is chartered under the laws of the State of Montana. * Arizona Bank & Trust, Phoenix, Arizona, is chartered under the laws of the State of Arizona. * Summit Bank & Trust, Broomfield, Colorado, is chartered under the laws of the State of Colorado. * Minnesota Bank & Trust, Edina, Minnesota, is chartered under the laws of the State of Minnesota. Heartland has eight active non-bank subsidiaries as listed below: * Citizens Finance Co. is a consumer finance company with offices in Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin. * Heartland Community Development Inc. is a property management company with a primary purpose of holding and managing certain nonperforming assets acquired from the Bank Subsidiaries. * Heartland Financial Statutory Trust III, Heartland Financial Statutory Trust IV, Heartland Financial Statutory Trust V, Heartland Financial Statutory Trust VI, Heartland Financial Statutory Trust VII and Rocky Mountain Statutory Trust I are special purpose trust subsidiaries of Heartland formed for the purpose of the offering of cumulative capital securities. All of Heartland’s subsidiaries are wholly owned, except for Summit Bank & Trust, of which Heartland owned 86% of the capital stock on December 31, 2009, and Minnesota Bank & Trust, of which Heartland owned 80% of the capital stock on December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, Heartland had total assets of $4.0 billion, total loans of $2.3 billion and total deposits of $3.1 billion. Heartland’s total capital as of December 31, 2009, was $315.1 million. Net income available to common stockholders for 2009 was $1.2 million. The Bank Subsidiaries provide full service commercial and retail banking in the communities in which they are located. Deposit products offered by the Bank Subsidiaries include checking and other demand deposit accounts, NOW accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, individual retirement accounts, health savings accounts and other time deposits. The deposits in the Bank Subsidiaries are insured by the FDIC to the full extent permitted by law. Loans include commercial and industrial, agricultural, real estate mortgage, consumer, home equity and lines of credit. Other products and services include VISA debit cards, automated teller machines, online banking, safe deposit boxes and trust services. The principal service of the Bank Subsidiaries consists of making loans to and accepting deposits from businesses and individuals. These loans are made at the offices of the Bank Subsidiaries. The Bank Subsidiaries also engage in activities that are closely related to banking, including investment brokerage and insurance sales. Operating Strategy Heartland’s operating strategy is based upon a community banking model with three major components: 1. Develop strong community banks: * Establish community bank names and images * Encourage community involvement and leadership * Maintain active boards of directors chosen from the local community * Retain local presidents and decision-making 2. Provide resources for revenue enhancement: * Develop and implement a wide array of financial products and services for all Bank Subsidiaries * Improve Bank Subsidiary funding costs by reducing higher-cost certificates of deposit; increasing the percentage of lower-cost transaction accounts such as checking, savings and money market accounts; emphasizing relationship banking and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities * Emphasize greater use of non-traditional sources of income, including trust and investment services, insurance and consumer finance * Evaluate and acquire state-of-the-art technology when the expected return justifies the cost 3. Provide customer-transparent cost savings: * Centralize back office support functions so Bank Subsidiaries operate as efficiently as possible Management believes the personal and professional service offered to customers provides an appealing alternative to the "megabanks" resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry. While Heartland employs a community banking philosophy, management believes Heartland’s size, combined with its complete line of financial products and services, is sufficient to effectively compete in the respective market areas. To remain price competitive, management also believes Heartland must manage expenses and gain economies of scale by centralizing back office support functions. Although each of Heartland’s subsidiaries operates under the direction of its own board of directors, Heartland has standard operating policies regarding asset/liability management, liquidity management, investment management, lending and deposit structure management. Another component of the operating strategy is to encourage all directors, officers and employees to maintain a strong ownership interest in Heartland. Since 1996, Heartland has provided an employee stock purchase plan. As of December 31, 2009, employees, officers, and directors owned approximately 35% of Heartland’s outstanding common stock. Acquisition and Expansion Strategy Heartland’s strategy is to increase profitability and diversify its market area and asset base by expanding existing subsidiaries through acquisitions. In the current environment, Heartland is seeking opportunities for growth via FDIC facilitated acquisitions within existing markets. Heartland would not rule out a FDIC facilitated transaction in a new market that fits our business model and would be immediately additive to earnings. Heartland acquires established financial services organizations, primarily commercial banks or thrifts, when suitable candidates are identified and acceptable business terms can be negotiated. Heartland has also formed de novo banking institutions in locations determined to have market potential and suitable management candidates with banking expertise and a philosophy similar to Heartland’s. Heartland has focused on markets with growth potential in the Midwestern and Western regions of the United States as it evaluates expansion and acquisition opportunities. In August 2003, Heartland and a group of investors opened Arizona Bank & Trust, a de novo banking operation, followed with a second location in 2004 and a third location in 2005. In 2006, Arizona Bank & Trust expanded by acquiring Bank of the Southwest, a financial institution providing retail and commercial banking services in Phoenix and Tempe, Arizona. Heartland combined the acquired assets and deposit accounts of Bank of the Southwest into Arizona Bank & Trust in May 2006. A sixth location was opened in 2007. Heartland took another step in the expansion of its Western presence in June 2004 when it acquired Rocky Mountain Bancorporation, Inc., the one-bank holding company of Rocky Mountain Bank. Headquartered in Billings, Montana, Rocky Mountain Bank has nine branch locations throughout the state. In November 2006, Heartland and a group of investors opened Summit Bank & Trust, a de novo banking operation in Broomfield, Colorado. The capital structure of Heartland’s ninth state-chartered bank was very similar to that used when Arizona Bank & Trust was formed. Heartland’s initial investment was $12.0 million, or 80% of the targeted $15.0 million initial capital. In 2007, Summit Bank & Trust opened two additional locations. One of Heartland’s strategic goals is to expand its presence in the Western markets to 50% of its total assets, thereby balancing the growth in its Western markets with the stability of the Midwestern markets. In April of 2008, Heartland and a group of investors opened Minnesota Bank & Trust in Edina, Minnesota. The capital structure of Minnesota Bank & Trust is very similar to that used when Arizona Bank & Trust and Summit Bank & Trust were formed, including 20% ownership by a group of local investors. Heartland’s initial investment was $13.2 million, or 80% of the targeted $16.5 million opening capital. In July of 2009, Galena State Bank & Trust Co. acquired the deposits of The Elizabeth State Bank in Elizabeth, Illinois in a whole bank with loss sharing transaction facilitated by the FDIC. In addition to assuming all of the deposits of the failed bank, Galena State Bank & Trust Co. purchased $53.6 million of assets. Lending Activities General The Bank Subsidiaries provide a range of commercial and retail lending services to businesses and individuals. These credit activities include agricultural, commercial, residential real estate and consumer loans. The Bank Subsidiaries market their services to qualified lending customers. Lending officers actively solicit the business of new companies entering their market areas as well as long-standing members of the Bank Subsidiaries' respective business communities. Through professional service, competitive pricing, and innovative structure, the Bank Subsidiaries have been successful in attracting new lending customers. Heartland also actively pursues consumer lending opportunities. With convenient locations, advertising and customer communications, the Bank Subsidiaries have been successful in capitalizing on the credit needs of their market areas. Commercial Loans The Bank Subsidiaries have a strong commercial loan base. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, in particular, continues to be a premier commercial lender in the tri-state area of northeast Iowa, northwest Illinois and southwest Wisconsin. The Bank Subsidiaries' current portfolios include, but are not limited to, loans to wholesalers, hospitality industry, real estate developers, manufacturers, building contractors, business services companies and retailers. The Bank Subsidiaries provide a wide range of business loans, including lines of credit for working capital and operational purposes and term loans for the acquisition of equipment and real estate. Although most loans are made on a secured basis, loans may be made on an unsecured basis where warranted by the overall financial condition of the borrower. Terms of commercial business loans generally range from one to five years. The Bank Subsidiaries continue to seek opportunities to expand the production of loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. Wisconsin Community Bank, Rocky Mountain Bank and New Mexico Bank & Trust are each designated as a Preferred Lender by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). These three banks, along with Riverside Community Bank, are also designated as SBA Express Lenders. Additionally, Wisconsin Community Bank has been granted USDA Certified Lender status for the USDA Rural Development Business and Industry loan program and has been one of the leading lenders in the Midwest for this program. Management believes that making these guaranteed loans helps the communities where it operates and provides Heartland with a source of income and solid future lending relationships with local businesses as they grow and prosper. The Bank Subsidiaries’ commercial loans and leases are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The collateral support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and leases is based upon the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. The primary repayment risks of commercial loans and leases are that the cash flow of the borrowers may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Heartland understands the roles that sound credit skills and a common credit culture play in maintaining quality loan portfolios. As the credit portfolios of the Bank Subsidiaries have continued to grow, several changes have been made in their lending departments resulting in an overall increase in these departments' skill levels. Heartland utilizes the RMA Diagnostic Assessment for assessing the credit skills and training needs for its credit personnel and develops specific individualized training. All new lending personnel are expected to complete a similar diagnostic training program. Heartland also assists all of the commercial and agricultural lenders of the Bank Subsidiaries in the analysis and underwriting of credit through its staff in the credit administration department. Commercial lenders interact with their respective boards of directors each month. Heartland also utilizes an internal loan review function to analyze credits of the Bank Subsidiaries and to provide periodic reports to the respective boards of directors. Management has attempted to identify problem loans at an early date and to aggressively seek resolution of these situations. The slowdown in the overall economy has negatively impacted Heartland’s overall asset quality in 2008 and 2009. Heartland has utilized a Special Assets group to focus on resolving problem assets. All commercial or agricultural loans in a default or workout status are assigned to the Special Assets group. Representatives of the Special Assets group meet with representatives from each bank on a monthly basis. Heartland anticipates continued focus with additional personnel assigned to this group in 2010. Agricultural Loans Agricultural loans are emphasized by Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, Rocky Mountain Bank, Wisconsin Community Bank’s Monroe banking center and New Mexico Bank & Trust’s Clovis banking offices. The Bank Subsidiaries that emphasize agricultural loans do so because of their location in or around rural markets. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company maintains its status as one of the largest agricultural lenders in the State of Iowa. Agricultural loans remain balanced in proportion to the rest of Heartland's loan portfolio, constituting approximately 11% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2009. Heartland’s policies designate a primary and secondary lending area for each bank with the majority of outstanding agricultural operating and real estate loans to customers located within the primary lending area. Term loans secured by real estate are allowed within the secondary lending area. Agricultural loans, many of which are secured by crops, machinery and real estate, are provided to finance capital improvements and farm operations as well as acquisitions of livestock and machinery. The ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower’s control including adverse weather conditions, loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of government regulations. The ultimate repayment of agricultural loans is dependent upon the profitable operation or management of the agricultural entity. The agricultural loan departments work closely with all of their customers, including companies and individual farmers, and review the preparation of budgets and cash flow projections for the ensuing crop year. These budgets and cash flow projections are monitored closely during the year and reviewed with the customers at least annually. The Bank Subsidiaries also work closely with governmental agencies, including the Farm Services Agency, to help agricultural customers obtain credit enhancement products such as loan guarantees or interest assistance. Residential Real Estate Mortgage Loans Mortgage lending remains a focal point for the Bank Subsidiaries as each of them continues to build its real estate lending business. As long-term interest rates have remained at relatively low levels during the past several years, many customers elected mortgage loans that are fixed rate with fifteen or thirty year maturities. Heartland usually sells these loans into the secondary market and retains servicing on the loans sold to Fannie Mae. Management believes that mortgage servicing on sold loans provides the Bank Subsidiaries with a relatively steady source of fee income compared to fees generated solely from mortgage origination operations. Moreover, the retention of servicing gives the Bank Subsidiaries the opportunity to maintain regular contact with mortgage loan customers. At December 31, 2009, total residential real estate mortgage loans serviced for others totaled $1.15 billion. As with agricultural and commercial loans, Heartland encourages the Bank Subsidiaries to participate in lending programs sponsored by U.S. government agencies when justified by market conditions. Veterans Administration and Federal Home Administration loans are offered at all of the Bank Subsidiaries. Consumer Lending The Bank Subsidiaries' consumer lending departments provide all types of consumer loans including motor vehicle, home improvement, home equity and small personal credit lines. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms, lower balances, higher yields and higher risks of default than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and are therefore more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Citizens Finance Co. specializes in consumer lending and currently serves the consumer credit needs of approximately 8,200 customers in Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin from its Dubuque, Davenport and Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Madison and Appleton, Wisconsin; and Loves Park, Crystal Lake and Tinley Park, Illinois offices. Citizens Finance Co. typically lends to borrowers with past credit problems or limited credit histories. Heartland expects to incur a higher level of credit losses on Citizens Finance Co. loans compared to consumer loans originated by the Bank Subsidiaries. Correspondingly, returns on these loans are anticipated to be higher than those at the Bank Subsidiaries. Trust and Investment Services Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, Galena State Bank & Trust Co., Riverside Community Bank, Wisconsin Community Bank, New Mexico Bank & Trust, Arizona Bank & Trust and Minnesota Bank & Trust offer trust and investment services in their respective communities. In those markets which do not yet warrant a full trust department, the sales and administration is performed by Dubuque Bank and Trust Company personnel. As of December 31, 2009, total Heartland trust assets were $1.7 billion, the vast majority of which were assets under management. Collectively, the Bank Subsidiaries provide a full complement of trust and investment services for individuals and corporations. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company is nationally recognized as a leading provider of socially responsible investment services, and it manages investment portfolios for religious and other non-profit organizations located throughout the United States. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company is also Heartland’s lead bank in providing daily valuation 401(k) plans and other retirement services, including Heartland’s retirement plan for its employees. Heartland has formed a strategic alliance with LPL Financial Institution Services, a division of LPL Financial, to operate independent securities offices at all of the Bank Subsidiaries. Through LPL Financial, Heartland offers a full array of investment services including mutual funds, annuities, retirement products, education savings products, brokerage services, employer sponsored plans and insurance products. A complete line of vehicle, property and casualty, life and disability insurance and tax-free annuities are also offered by Heartland through DB&T Insurance. B. MARKET AREAS Dubuque Bank and Trust Company Dubuque Bank and Trust Company is located in Dubuque County, Iowa, which encompasses the city of Dubuque and a number of surrounding rural communities. Citizens Finance Co. is also headquartered in this market with additional offices in Davenport, Iowa; Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Madison, Wisconsin; Appleton, Wisconsin; Loves Park, Illinois; Tinley Park, Illinois and Crystal Lake, Illinois. The city of Dubuque is located in northeastern Iowa, on the Mississippi River, approximately 175 miles west of Chicago, Illinois, and approximately 200 miles northeast of Des Moines, Iowa. It is strategically situated at the intersection of the state borders of Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin. Based upon the results of the 2000 census, the city of Dubuque had a total population of approximately 58,000. The principal offices of Heartland and Dubuque Bank and Trust Company’s main bank currently occupy the same building. Heartland’s operations center is located directly across the street from Dubuque Bank and Trust Company’s main office. In addition to its main banking office, Dubuque Bank and Trust Company operates seven branch offices, all of which are located in Dubuque County. As a subsidiary of Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, DB&T Insurance has substantially the same market area as the parent organization. Galena State Bank & Trust Co. Galena State Bank & Trust Co. is located in Galena, Illinois, approximately 20 miles east of Dubuque and 155 miles west of Chicago. Galena operates a second office in Stockton, Illinois. In conjunction with an FDIC assisted transaction in 2009, Galena acquired all deposits of The Elizabeth State Bank in Elizabeth, Illinois and two offices in Elizabeth, Illinois and Galena. The four offices are located in Jo Daviess County, which has a population of approximately 22,000, according to the 2000 census. First Community Bank First Community Bank’s main office is in Keokuk, Iowa, which is located in the southeast corner of Iowa near the borders of Iowa, Missouri and Illinois. Due to its location, First Community Bank serves customers in the tri-county region of Lee County, Iowa; Hancock County, Illinois; and Clark County, Missouri. First Community Bank has one branch office in Keokuk and another branch in the city of Carthage in Hancock County, Illinois. Keokuk is an industrial community with a population of approximately 11,000, and the population of Lee County is approximately 38,000. Riverside Community Bank Riverside Community Bank is located on the northeast edge of Rockford, Illinois, which is approximately 75 miles west of Chicago in Winnebago County. In addition to its main banking office, Riverside Community Bank has three branch offices, all of which are located in the Winnebago County area. Based on the 2000 census, the county had a population of 278,000, and the city of Rockford had a population of 150,000. Wisconsin Community Bank Wisconsin Community Bank’s main office is located in Madison, Wisconsin, in Dane County. Wisconsin Community Bank operates three branch offices in the Madison suburbs. The main office was constructed in 2007. According to the 2000 census, Dane County had a population of 427,000. Wisconsin Community Bank also has a location in Monroe, Wisconsin. The city of Monroe, which is approximately 50 miles southwest of Madison, is located in Green County in south central Wisconsin. Wisconsin Community Bank has two offices in Sheboygan and DePere, Wisconsin that operate under the name of Heartland Business Bank. The Sheboygan and DePere facilities are located in the northeastern Wisconsin counties of Sheboygan and Brown. New Mexico Bank & Trust New Mexico Bank & Trust operates ten offices in or around Albuquerque, New Mexico, in Bernalillo County. Based upon the 2000 census, the county had a population of 557,000, and the city had a population of 449,000. New Mexico Bank & Trust also operates from four locations in east central New Mexico. The majority of these four locations are in Clovis, the county seat for Curry County, located approximately 220 miles east of Albuquerque, 100 miles northwest of Lubbock, Texas and 105 miles southwest of Amarillo, Texas. In addition, New Mexico Bank & Trust operates two branch offices in Santa Fe, in Santa Fe County. Arizona Bank & Trust Arizona Bank & Trust currently operates six offices in Arizona; including the main office in Phoenix, one in Mesa, one in Tempe, one in Gilbert and two in Chandler. These cities are all located in the Phoenix metropolitan area within Maricopa County. The 2000 census reported the population of the Phoenix metro area to be 3,252,000. According to the ranking tables prepared by the U.S. Census Bureau, the population of the Phoenix metro area increased by 45% from 1990 through 2000, helping make Arizona the second fastest growing state in the nation in the 1990s. The cities of Phoenix, Mesa, Tempe, Gilbert and Chandler are among the eight cities in the Phoenix metro area with a population of 100,000 or more. Rocky Mountain Bank Rocky Mountain Bank operates from nine locations throughout the state of Montana. Rocky Mountain Bank’s main office is in Billings which is the state’s largest city and an agricultural, retail and business center. Billings is also the county seat of Yellowstone County within south-central Montana along Interstate-90. Based upon the 2000 census, the county had a population of 129,000 and the city had a population of 90,000. Six of the locations are spread primarily along the western corridor of the state of Montana. Summit Bank & Trust The main facility for Summit Bank & Trust is in Broomfield, Colorado. The city and county of Broomfield is located in the northwestern tier of the Denver-Aurora Metropolitan Area. The population of Broomfield was estimated at 43,000 in 2005 by the U.S. Census Bureau. Broomfield is the sixteenth most populous city in the state of Colorado. A second location was opened in June 2007 in Thornton, just north of the Denver International Airport and a third location was added in October of 2007 in the town of Erie, Colorado which is approximately 25 miles north of Denver. Minnesota Bank & Trust Minnesota Bank & Trust currently operates from a leased facility in Edina, Minnesota. Edina is centrally located between Minneapolis and the southwest suburbs of the Twin Cities. The population of Edina was estimated at 45,000 in 2006 by the U.S. Census Bureau. The following table sets forth certain information concerning the Bank Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009: Heartland Bank Subsidiaries (Dollars in thousands) Bank Subsidiaries Charter Location Year Acquired or Opened Number Of Locations Total Portfolio Loans Total Deposits Dubuque Bank and Trust Company Dubuque, IA 1935 8 $ 658,274 $ 864,133 Galena State Bank & Trust Co. Galena, IL 1992 4 $ 134,104 $ 253,073 First Community Bank Keokuk, IA 1994 3 $ 72,113 $ 100,328 Riverside Community Bank Rockford, IL 1995 4 $ 161,280 $ 232,459 Wisconsin Community Bank Madison, WI 1997 7 $ 274,487 $ 358,994 New Mexico Bank & Trust Albuquerque, NM 1998 16 $ 502,497 $ 589,468 Arizona Bank & Trust Phoenix, AZ 2003 6 $ 138,604 $ 202,730 Rocky Mountain Bank Billings, MT 2004 9 $ 292,914 $ 376,487 Summit Bank & Trust Broomfield, CO 2006 3 $ 58,108 $ 85,131 Minnesota Bank & Trust Edina, MN 2008 1 $ 24,472 $ 34,616 C. COMPETITION Heartland encounters competition in all areas of its business pursuits. To compete effectively, develop its market base, maintain flexibility, and keep pace with changing economic and social conditions, Heartland continuously refines and develops its products and services. The principal methods of competing in the financial services industry are through product selection, personal service and convenience. The Bank Subsidiaries' market areas are highly competitive. Many financial institutions based in the communities surrounding the Bank Subsidiaries actively compete for customers within Heartland's market area. The Bank Subsidiaries also face competition from finance companies, insurance companies, mortgage companies, securities brokerage firms, money market funds, loan production offices and other providers of financial services. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, effective in 2000, securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act significantly changed the competitive environment in which Heartland and the Bank Subsidiaries conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. Heartland competes for loans principally through the range and quality of the services it provides, with an emphasis on building long-lasting relationships. Our strategy is to delight our customers through excellence in customer service and needs-based selling. We become their trusted financial advisor. Heartland believes that its long-standing presence in the community and personal service philosophy enhance its ability to compete favorably in attracting and retaining individual and business customers. Heartland actively solicits deposit-oriented clients and competes for deposits by offering its customers personal attention, professional service and competitive interest rates. D. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2009, Heartland employed 1,001 full-time equivalent employees. Heartland places a high priority on staff development, which involves extensive training in a variety of areas, including customer service training. New employees are selected based upon their technical skills and customer service capabilities. None of Heartland's employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Heartland offers a variety of employee benefits, and management considers its employee relations to be excellent. Heartland utilizes Predictive Index software to assist with placing potential employees in new positions within Heartland and with evaluating current positions. E. INTERNET ACCESS Heartland maintains an Internet site at www.htlf.com. Heartland offers its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) free of charge from its Web site as soon as reasonably practical after meeting the electronic filing requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. F. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION General Financial institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates are extensively regulated under federal and state law. As a result, the growth and earnings performance of Heartland may be affected not only by management decisions and general economic conditions, but also by the requirements of federal and state statutes and by the regulations and policies of various bank regulatory authorities. As a bank holding company with subsidiary banks chartered under the laws of eight different states, Heartland is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). Each of the Bank Subsidiaries is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as its principal federal regulator and one of the following as its state regulator: the Arizona State Banking Department (the “Arizona Department”), the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Banking (the “Colorado Division”), the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (the “Illinois DFPR”), the Iowa Superintendent of Banking (the “Iowa Superintendent”), the Minnesota Department of Commerce: Division of Financial Institutions (the “Minnesota Division”), the Montana Division of Banking and Financial Institutions (the “Montana Division”), the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division (the “New Mexico FID”), the Division of Banking of the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions (the “Wisconsin DFI”). As a recipient of Capital Purchase Program funds under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP ”) established by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), Heartland is also subject to direct supervision by the United States Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”). Taxation laws administered by the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities and securities laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and state securities authorities also have an impact on the business of Heartland. The effect of these statutes, regulations and regulatory policies may be significant, and cannot be predicted with a high degree of certainty. Federal and state laws and regulations generally applicable to financial institutions regulate, among other things, the scope of business, the kinds and amounts of investments, reserve requirements, capital levels relative to operations, the nature and amount of collateral for loans, the establishment of branches, mergers and consolidations and the payment of dividends. This system of supervision and regulation establishes a comprehensive framework for the respective operations of Heartland and its subsidiaries and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC-insured deposits and depositors of the Bank Subsidiaries, rather than shareholders. The following is a summary of material elements of the regulatory framework that applies to Heartland and its subsidiaries. It does not describe all of the statutes, regulations and regulatory policies that apply, nor does it restate all of the requirements of those that are described. As such, the following is qualified in its entirety by reference to applicable law. Any change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies may have a material effect on the business of Heartland and its subsidiaries. Heartland General Heartland, as the sole shareholder of Dubuque Bank and Trust Company, New Mexico Bank & Trust, Rocky Mountain Bank, Wisconsin Community Bank, Galena State Bank & Trust Co., Riverside Community Bank, First Community Bank and Arizona Bank & Trust and the controlling shareholder of Summit Bank & Trust and Minnesota Bank & Trust, is a bank holding company. As a bank holding company, Heartland is registered with, and is subject to regulation by, the Federal Reserve under the BHCA. In accordance with Federal Reserve policy, Heartland is expected to act as a source of financial strength to the Bank Subsidiaries and to commit resources to support the Bank Subsidiaries in circumstances where Heartland might not otherwise do so. Under the BHCA, Heartland is subject to periodic examination by the Federal Reserve. Heartland is also required to file with the Federal Reserve periodic reports of Heartland’s operations and such additional information regarding Heartland and its subsidiaries as the Federal Reserve may require. Acquisitions, Activities and Change in Control The primary purpose of a bank holding company is to control and manage banks. The BHCA generally requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for any merger involving a bank holding company or any acquisition by a bank holding company of another bank or bank holding company. Subject to certain conditions (including certain deposit concentration limits established by the BHCA), the Federal Reserve may allow a bank holding company to acquire banks located in any state of the United States. In approving interstate acquisitions, the Federal Reserve is required to give effect to applicable state law limitations on the aggregate amount of deposits that may be held by the acquiring bank holding company and its insured depository institution affiliates in the state in which the target bank is located (provided that those limits do not discriminate against out-of-state depository institutions or their holding companies) and state laws that require that the target bank have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) before being acquired by an out-of-state bank holding company. The BHCA generally prohibits Heartland from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank and from engaging in any business other than that of banking, managing and controlling banks or, furnishing services to banks and their subsidiaries. This general prohibition is subject to a number of exceptions. The principal exception allows bank holding companies to engage in, and to own shares of companies engaged in, certain businesses found by the Federal Reserve to be “so closely related to banking ... as to be a proper incident thereto.” This authority would permit Heartland to engage in a variety of banking-related businesses, including the operation of a thrift, consumer finance, equipment leasing, the operation of a computer service bureau (including software development), and mortgage banking and brokerage. The BHCA generally does not place territorial restrictions on the domestic activities of non-bank subsidiaries of bank holding companies. Additionally, bank holding companies that meet certain eligibility requirements prescribed by the BHCA and elect to operate as financial holding companies may engage in, or own shares in companies engaged in, a wider range of nonbanking activities, including securities and insurance underwriting and sales, merchant banking and any other activity that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines by regulation or order is financial in nature, incidental to any such financial activity or complementary to any such financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. As of the date of this filing, Heartland has not applied for approval to operate as a financial holding company. Federal law also prohibits any person or company from acquiring “control” of an FDIC-insured depository institution or its holding company without prior notice to the appropriate federal bank regulator. “Control” is conclusively presumed to exist upon the acquisition of 25% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a bank or bank holding company, but may arise under certain circumstances at 10% ownership. Capital Requirements Bank holding companies are required to maintain minimum levels of capital in accordance with Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines. If capital levels fall below the minimum required levels, a bank holding company, among other things, may be denied approval to acquire or establish additional banks or non-bank businesses. The Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines establish the following minimum regulatory capital requirements for bank holding companies: (i) a risk-based requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets weighted according to risk; and (ii) a leverage requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets. The risk-based requirement consists of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4%. The leverage requirement consists of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3% for the most highly rated companies, with a minimum requirement of 4% for all others. For purposes of these capital standards, Tier 1 capital consists primarily of permanent stockholders’ equity less intangible assets (other than certain loan servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships). Total capital consists primarily of Tier 1 capital plus certain other debt and equity instruments that do not qualify as Tier 1 capital and a portion of Heartland’s allowance for loan and lease losses. The risk-based and leverage standards described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual banking organizations. For example, the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines contemplate that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk, or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, any banking organization experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions (i.e., Tier 1 capital less all intangible assets), well above the minimum levels. As of December 31, 2009, Heartland had regulatory capital in excess of the Federal Reserve’s minimum requirements. Treasury Regulation—the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 On October 3, 2008, in response to stresses experienced in the financial markets, the EESA was enacted. Pursuant to its authority under EESA, the Treasury created the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) under which the Treasury Department has invested in the senior preferred stock of qualifying U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies. Under the CPP, qualifying financial institutions may issue senior preferred stock with a value equal to not less than 1% of risk-weighted assets and not more than the lesser of $25 billion or 3% of risk-weighted assets. On December 19, 2008, Heartland issued and sold $81.7 million of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the “Senior Preferred Stock”) to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP. The Senior Preferred Stock, which has terms that were set by the Treasury and that are relatively uniform among publicly held banks participating in the program: * pays dividends to Treasury at a rate of 5% per year until the fifth anniversary of the investment and at 9% after that time; * prohibits dividends on common stock unless all dividends have been paid on the Senior Preferred Stock; * requires the consent of Treasury for any increase in the dividends paid on the common stock, or for any stock repurchases, until the third anniversary of the investment, unless the senior preferred has been previously redeemed in its entirety or unless the Treasury has transferred the senior preferred to third parties; * has no voting rights, other than the right to vote as a class on the issuance of any preferred stock ranking senior, any change in its terms or any merger, exchange or similar transaction that would adversely affect its rights; * has the right to elect two directors if dividends have not been paid for six quarterly periods; and * is freely transferable and required Heartland to file a shelf registration statement covering the sale of the Senior Preferred, which Heartland completed in January, 2009. * may be redeemed at any time with the approval of Heartland’s primary regulator (the FDIC). Heartland, like all institutions participating in the CPP, also issued to Treasury an immediately exercisable 10-year warrant to purchase shares of common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the amount of senior preferred: a warrant to purchase 609,687 shares for Heartland (the “Warrant”). The Warrant is exercisable at a price of $20.10 per share (the average closing price of the common stock for the 20 trading days prior to the date of the Treasury’s approval). Under the purchase agreement pursuant to which the Senior Preferred Stock and Warrant were acquired (the “Purchase Agreement”), Treasury is prohibited from exercising voting rights with respect to any shares of common stock acquired through exercise of the warrant and the shares of common stock underlying the warrant were included in the shelf registration statement filed by Heartland. Prior to issuance of the Senior Preferred Stock, Heartland and its senior executive officers, like all other CPP participants, were required by the Purchase Agreement to modify all benefit plans and arrangements to comply with restrictions imposed by EESA. At the time, these restriction provided that, so long as Treasury owns any debt or equity securities acquired pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Heartland would be: * prohibited from making any “Golden Parachute Payments” to a senior executive officer (payments for separation of the executive in excess of three times the average compensation of the executive for the five years prior to termination); * required to have its compensation committee review with its senior risk officers the incentive compensation arrangements for senior executive officers to ensure that the arrangements did not encourage senior executive officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of Heartland; * required to “clawback” incentive compensation of senior executive officers to the extent based on materially inaccurate financial statements or materially inaccurate performance criteria; and * by virtue of an amendment to Section 162(m)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, required to eliminate the deductibility of taxable compensation payments that exceed $500,000 to an officer in any year. These restrictions were substantially expanded when on February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), more commonly know as the Economic Stimulus Act, was enacted. Title VII of ARRA, and regulations issued by Treasury under ARRA in June 2009, placed additional restrictions on the compensation paid to executive officers and highly paid employees by financial institutions, such as Heartland, that have received CPP funds. Among other things, these additional restrictions will require that, while the Senior Preferred Stock is outstanding, Heartland will be: * prohibited from paying incentive compensation, except restricted stock that vests after the CPP funds are repaid, to its five most highly compensated employees; * required to have its compensation committee review with its senior risk officers at least every six months (i) the incentive compensation arrangements for senior executive officers to ensure that the arrangements do not encourage senior executive officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks, (ii) all employee compensation plans to limit unnecessary risks those plans impose, and (iii) all employee plans to eliminate features that would encourage manipulation of reported earnings, and to have the compensation committee certify annually as to the completion of that review; * required to extend the clawback provisions to its 20 most highly compensated employees; * prohibited from making any severance payment whatsoever, including what has traditionally been referred to as a parachute payment, to the executives named in the summary compensation table of its proxy statement or any of the five next most highly compensated employees; * required to annually present its compensation policies to a non-binding vote by stockholders--a say-on-pay vote; * adopt policies regarding excessive and luxury expenditures; and * required to have its CEO and CFO annually certify that Heartland has complied with these requirements as part of its annual filing with the SEC (this Form 10-K). Except with respect to the prohibition on incentive compensation to its five most highly compensated employees, Heartland does not believe these provisions have any material impact on it. Dividend Payments Heartland’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders may be affected by both general corporate law considerations, the limitations imposed under the CPP described above and policies of the Federal Reserve applicable to bank holding companies. As a Delaware corporation, Heartland is subject to the limitations of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), which allows Heartland to pay dividends only out of its surplus (as defined and computed in accordance with the provisions of the DGCL) or if Heartland has no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. In addition, policies of the Federal Reserve caution that a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with its capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve also possesses enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries to prevent or remedy actions that represent unsafe or unsound practices or violations of applicable statutes and regulations. Among these powers is the ability to proscribe the payment of dividends by banks and bank holding companies. Heartland is prohibited from paying any dividends on or repurchasing shares of common stock unless all dividends on the Senior Preferred Stock have been paid, and under the Purchase Agreement, Heartland is prohibited until after December 19, 2011, from paying quarterly dividends, without the Treasury’s consent, in excess of $0.10 per share as long as the Senior Preferred Stock is outstanding. Federal Securities Regulation Heartland’s common stock is registered with the SEC under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Consequently, Heartland is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Bank Subsidiaries General All of the Bank Subsidiaries are state chartered, non-member banks, which means that they are all formed under state law and are not members of the Federal Reserve System. As such, each bank is subject to direct regulation by the banking authorities in the State in which it was chartered, as well as by the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. Dubuque Bank and Trust Company and First Community Bank are Iowa-chartered banks. As Iowa-chartered banks, Dubuque Bank and Trust Company and First Community Bank are subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Iowa Superintendent, the chartering authority for Iowa banks. Galena State Bank & Trust Co. and Riverside Community Bank are Illinois-chartered banks. As Illinois-chartered banks, Galena State Bank & Trust Co. and Riverside Community Bank are subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Illinois DFPR, the chartering authority for Illinois banks. New Mexico Bank & Trust is a New Mexico-chartered bank. As a New Mexico-chartered bank, New Mexico Bank & Trust is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the New Mexico FID, the chartering authority for New Mexico banks. Rocky Mountain Bank is a Montana-chartered bank. As a Montana-chartered bank, Rocky Mountain Bank is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Montana Division, the chartering authority for Montana banks. Wisconsin Community Bank is a Wisconsin-chartered bank. As a Wisconsin-chartered bank, Wisconsin Community Bank is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Wisconsin DFI, the chartering authority for Wisconsin banks. Summit Bank & Trust is a Colorado-chartered bank. As a Colorado-chartered bank, Summit Bank & Trust is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Colorado Division, the chartering authority for Colorado banks. Arizona Bank & Trust is an Arizona-chartered bank. As an Arizona-chartered bank, Arizona Bank & Trust is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Arizona Department, the chartering authority for Arizona banks. Minnesota Bank & Trust is a Minnesota-chartered bank. As a Minnesota-chartered bank, Minnesota Bank & Trust is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Minnesota Division, the chartering authority for Minnesota banks. Deposit Insurance The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures the deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and savings institutions and safeguards the safety and soundness of the commercial banking and thrift industries. Until the adoption of EESA in October 2008, the maximum deposit insurance coverage was $100,000 per beneficiary ($250,000 per participant for retirement plans) and was indexed for inflation commencing in 2011. Under EESA, the maximum deposit insurance coverage has been temporarily increased from $100,000 to $250,000 until December 31, 2013. As FDIC-insured institutions, the Bank Subsidiaries are required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system under which FDIC-insured depository institutions pay insurance premiums at rates based on their risk classification. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to the regulators. The aggregate level of assessments levied by the FDIC on depositary institutions is dependent upon the reserve ratio of insurance funds available to the FDIC. Due to bank failures during 2008, the reserve ratio fell below the statutory minimum and the FDIC adopted a plan to restore the ratio to its 1.15% minimum, originally over a period of five years, but more recently extended to seven years. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC announced that it was increasing the quarterly deposit insurance assessment for most insured institutions to a range of 12 to 16 basis points (0.12% to 0.16%) per quarter for the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC also imposed a special emergency assessment of an additional 5 basis points on each FDIC-insured depository institution's assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009, which was due and paid by Heartland on September 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring prepayment of 13 quarters of each institution’s estimated FDIC premiums for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Heartland prepaid the required $19.0 million in December 2009. The expense of this prepayment will be recognized during the next three years based on the calculation of actual quarterly assessments. Heartland expects that actual FDIC assessments will remain higher as bank failures work through the economy and may be further increased if the reserve ratio is further impaired. The reserve ratio calculated by the FDIC in effect at September 30, 2009 was -0.16%. The FDIC established a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program on October 23, 2008 under which the FDIC fully guaranteed all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts and all senior unsecured debt of insured depository institutions or their qualified holding companies issued between October 14, 2008 and October 31, 2009. Heartland did not opt out of the program and as such, was assessed ten basis points for transaction account balances in excess of $250,000 and, since it did not issue any senior unsecured debt during the designated time period, was not assessed the applicable rate of 75 basis points on the amount of debt issued. The guarantee of non-interest-bearing transaction accounts has been extended to June 30, 2010, and participating institutions had until November 2, 2009, to opt out of the extension. Heartland did not opt out. After June 30, 2010, the FDIC insurance limit for all deposit accounts will be $250,000. The total assessments paid by Heartland during 2009 for participation in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program totaled $105,000. In addition, all institutions with deposits insured by the FDIC are required to pay assessments to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the Federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the assessment rate was 0.0102% of insured deposits. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2019. Supervisory Assessments Each of the Bank Subsidiaries is required to pay supervisory assessments to its respective state banking regulator to fund the operations of that agency. In general, the amount of the assessment is calculated on the basis of each institution’s total assets. During 2009, the Bank Subsidiaries paid supervisory assessments totaling $483,000. Capital Requirements Under federal regulations, the Bank Subsidiaries are subject to the following minimum capital standards: (i) a leverage requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3% for the most highly-rated banks with a minimum requirement of at least 4% for all others; and (ii) a risk-based capital requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4%. In general, the components of Tier 1 capital and total capital are the same as those for bank holding companies discussed above. The capital requirements described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual institutions. For example, federal regulations provide that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. The FDIC’s approval of deposit insurance for Minnesota Bank & Trust was conditioned upon Minnesota Bank & Trust maintaining higher Tier 1 capital to assets ratios for the first three years of their operations (through April 2012). Further, under agreements with the FDIC and state banking agencies described below under “Safety and Soundness Standards,” Summit Bank & Trust is required to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total assets of 8% and Rocky Mountain Bank is required to maintain both a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 8% and a ratio of total risk-based capital to risk-weighted assets of 12%. Further, federal law and regulations provide various incentives for financial institutions to maintain regulatory capital at levels in excess of minimum regulatory requirements. For example, a financial institution that is “well-capitalized” may qualify for exemptions from prior notice or application requirements otherwise applicable to certain types of activities and may qualify for expedited processing of other required notices or applications. Additionally, one of the criteria that determines a bank holding company’s eligibility to operate as a financial holding company is a requirement that all of its financial institution subsidiaries be “well-capitalized.” Under federal regulations, in order to be “well-capitalized” a financial institution must maintain a ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 10% or greater, a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 6% or greater and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 5% or greater. Federal law also provides the federal banking regulators with broad power to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The extent of the regulators’ powers depends on whether the institution in question is “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized,” in each case as defined by regulation. Depending upon the capital category to which an institution is assigned, the regulators’ corrective powers include: (i) requiring the institution to submit a capital restoration plan; (ii) limiting the institution’s asset growth and restricting its activities; (iii) requiring the institution to issue additional capital stock (including additional voting stock) or to be acquired; (iv) restricting transactions between the institution and its affiliates; (v) restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; (vi) ordering a new election of directors of the institution; (vii) requiring that senior executive officers or directors be dismissed; (viii) prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; (ix) requiring the institution to divest certain subsidiaries; (x) prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; and (xi) ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. As of December 31, 2009: (i) none of the Bank Subsidiaries was subject to a directive from its primary federal regulator to increase its capital; (ii) each of the Bank Subsidiaries exceeded its minimum regulatory capital requirements under applicable capital adequacy guidelines; (iii) each of the Bank Subsidiaries was “well-capitalized,” as defined by applicable regulations; and (iv) each of the Bank Subsidiaries subject to a directive to maintain capital higher than the regulatory capital requirements, as discussed below under “Safety and Soundness Standards,” complied with the directive. Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions Under federal law, institutions insured by the FDIC may be liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection with the default of commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions or any assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions in danger of default. Because Heartland controls each of the Bank Subsidiaries, the Bank Subsidiaries are commonly controlled for purposes of these provisions of federal law. Dividend Payments The primary source of funds for Heartland is dividends from the Bank Subsidiaries. In general, the Bank Subsidiaries may only pay dividends either out of their historical net income after any required transfers to surplus or reserves have been made or out of their retained earnings. The payment of dividends by any financial institution is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and a financial institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. As described above, each of the Bank Subsidiaries exceeded its minimum capital requirements under applicable guidelines as of December 31, 2009. Minnesota Bank & Trust is subject to the FDIC’s further prohibition on the payment of dividends during the first three years of a bank’s operations, allowing cash dividends to be paid only from net operating income, and prohibiting the payment of dividends until an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses has been established and overall capital is adequate. Pursuant to agreements with the FDIC and the state banking agencies described below under “Safety and Soundness Standards,” neither Summit Bank & Trust nor Rocky Mountain Bank may pay any dividends without prior notice to, and consent from, the FDIC and the state banking regulator. Further, First Community Bank may not pay dividends in an amount that would reduce its capital below the amount required for the liquidation account established in connection with First Community Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership in 1991. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $94.5 million was available to be paid as dividends by the Bank Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the availability of funds for dividends, however, the FDIC may prohibit the payment of any dividends by the Bank Subsidiaries. Insider Transactions The Bank Subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to Heartland and its subsidiaries, on investments in the stock or other securities of Heartland and its subsidiaries and the acceptance of the stock or other securities of Heartland or its subsidiaries as collateral for loans made by the Bank Subsidiaries. Certain limitations and reporting requirements are also placed on extensions of credit by each of the Bank Subsidiaries to its directors and officers, to directors and officers of Heartland and its subsidiaries, to principal shareholders of Heartland and to “related interests” of such directors, officers and principal shareholders. In addition, federal law and regulations may affect the terms upon which any person who is a director or officer of Heartland or any of its subsidiaries or a principal shareholder of Heartland may obtain credit from banks with which the Bank Subsidiaries maintain correspondent relationships. Although Heartland believes its subsidiaries comply with these requirements, one of its Bank Subsidiaries was cited in 2008 and 2009 for a deficiency in insider transaction compliance in connection with the joint examination described in “Safety and Soundness Standards” below. Safety and Soundness Standards The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines that establish operational and managerial standards to promote the safety and soundness of federally insured depository institutions. The guidelines set forth standards for internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality and earnings. In general, the safety and soundness guidelines prescribe the goals to be achieved in each area, and each institution is responsible for establishing its own procedures to achieve those goals. If an institution fails to comply with any of the standards set forth in the guidelines, the institution’s primary federal regulator may require the institution to submit a plan for achieving and maintaining compliance. If an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan, or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan that has been accepted by its primary federal regulator, the regulator is required to issue an order directing the institution to cure the deficiency. Until the deficiency cited in the regulator’s order is cured, the regulator may restrict the institution’s rate of growth, require the institution to increase its capital, restrict the rates the institution pays on deposits or require the institution to take any action the regulator deems appropriate under the circumstances. Noncompliance with the standards established by the safety and soundness guidelines may also constitute grounds for other enforcement action by the federal banking regulators, including cease and desist orders and civil money penalty assessments. During their regular scheduled joint examinations of the Bank Subsidiaries, the FDIC and state banking commissioners cited three of the Bank Subsidiaries for certain deficiencies, including asset quality. In January of 2009, the boards of directors of Summit Bank & Trust and Arizona Bank & Trust, and in the fall of 2009, the board of directors of Rocky Mountain Bank, entered into informal agreements with the FDIC and their respective state banking commissioners, agreeing to submit plans for improvement in the risks associated with any classified asset with a balance of more than $250,000, agreeing not to extend or renew credit to borrowers under loans that are classified, agreeing to review and ensure the sufficiency of the allowance for loan and lease losses and agreeing to submit a business plan outlining the plans to accomplish these measures as well as periodic progress reports against that plan. As noted above, two of these Bank Subsidiaries also agreed to maintain higher levels of regulatory capital and to refrain from paying dividends without regulatory approval. Each of these Bank Subsidiaries remains well capitalized and has complied with its agreement with its regulators. Branching Authority Each of the Bank Subsidiaries has the authority, pursuant to the laws under which it is chartered, to establish branches anywhere in the state in which its main office is located, subject to the receipt of all required regulatory approvals. Federal law permits state and national banks to merge with banks in other states subject to: (i) regulatory approval; (ii) federal and state deposit concentration limits; and (iii) state law limitations requiring the merging bank to have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) prior to the merger. The establishment of new interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) is permitted only in those states the laws of which expressly authorize such expansion. State Bank Investments and Activities Each of the Bank Subsidiaries generally is permitted to make investments and engage in activities directly or through subsidiaries as authorized by the laws of the state under which it is chartered. However, under federal law and FDIC regulations, FDIC-insured state banks are prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from making or retaining equity investments of a type, or in an amount, that are not permissible for a national bank. Federal law and FDIC regulations also prohibit FDIC-insured state banks and their subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions, from engaging as principal in any activity that is not permitted for a national bank unless the bank meets, and continues to meet, its minimum regulatory capital requirements and the FDIC determines the activity would not pose a significant risk to the deposit insurance fund of which the bank is a member. These restrictions have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material impact on the operations of the Bank Subsidiaries. Federal Reserve Federal Reserve regulations, as presently in effect, require depository institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts), as follows: (i) for transaction accounts aggregating $10.7 million or less, there is no reserve requirement; (ii) for transaction accounts over $10.7 million and up to $55.2 million, the reserve requirement is 3% of total transaction accounts; and (iii) for transaction accounts aggregating in excess of $55.2 million, the reserve requirement is $1.335 million plus 10% of the aggregate amount of total transaction accounts in excess of $55.2 million. These reserve requirements are subject to annual adjustment by the Federal Reserve. The Bank Subsidiaries are in compliance with the foregoing requirements. G. GOVERNMENTAL MONETARY POLICY AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Heartland’s earnings are affected by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve’s monetary policies have significantly affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue doing so in the future. Changing economic and money market conditions prompted by the actions of monetary and fiscal authorities may cause changes in interest rates, credit availability, and deposit levels that are beyond Heartland’s control. Future policies of the Federal Reserve and other authorities cannot be predicted, nor can their effect on future earnings. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors that may adversely affect our business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely impact our financial results or stock price. Our business and financial results are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and particularly in the states in which our subsidiary banks operate. The United States economy has undergone a dramatic downturn during the past two years, with negative effects on the business, financial condition and results of operations of financial institutions. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including Heartland. Further erosion of consumer confidence levels could cause renewed increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. In addition, changes in securities market conditions and monetary fluctuations could adversely affect the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet our liquidity needs. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Heartland and others in the financial institutions industry. Additional legislation and rulemaking could affect us adversely. The programs established under the EESA and TARP, as well as restrictions contained in the rules implementing or related to them under ARRA, could adversely affect our operations. For example, the restrictions contained in ARRA on our compensation programs could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain management. Requirements for dividends at the holding company level and restrictions on dividends paid by the Bank Subsidiaries could restrict our ability to fund expansion, and further restrictions imposed by regulation because of our participation in the TARP CPP program could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to financial institutions that did not receive CPP funds. We face increased regulation of our business and increased costs associated with these programs. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC may have an adverse effect on us, due to the costs of participation. Other changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter our business environment and adversely affect operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine, in a large part, our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. Recent changes in the laws and regulations that apply to us have been significant. Further dramatic changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that we offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect our liquidity and operations. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by Heartland or the Bank Subsidiaries or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the various markets that we serve. We operate over a wide area, including markets in Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, Arizona, New Mexico, Montana, Colorado and Minnesota and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those areas. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in those areas. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond our market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, although all of our markets have been impacted to some extent by the economic downturn, the markets in Arizona, Colorado and Montana have been more severely affected than most of the markets in the Midwest, creating correspondingly greater impact on our banks that serve those areas. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income. As part of our general growth strategy, we may acquire banks and related businesses that we believe provide a strategic and geographic fit with our business. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: * potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; * exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business; * difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; * potential disruption to our business; * potential restrictions on our business resulting from the regulatory approval process; * potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; and * the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire. In addition to acquisitions, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by undertaking additional de novo bank formations or branch openings. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes up to three years for new banking facilities to first achieve operational profitability, due to the impact of organization and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that we undertake additional branching and de novo bank and business formations, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Our market and growth strategy relies heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Much of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our different market areas. Because our service areas are spread over such a wide geographical area, our management headquartered in Dubuque, Iowa, is dependent on the effective leadership and capabilities of the management in our local markets for the continued success of Heartland. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams and loan officers of our operating subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market area to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition in all phases of our business. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive and is currently undergoing significant change. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, thrifts, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers, and increasingly these competitors provide integrated financial services over a broad geographic area. Some of our competitors may also have access to governmental programs that impact their position in the marketplace favorably. Increased competition in our markets may result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. Interest rates and other conditions impact our results of operations. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations, is presented at “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included under Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our credit review department. However, changes in the economy can cause the assumptions that we made at origination to change and can cause borrowers to be unable to make payments on their loans, and significant changes in collateral values such as those that occurred in late 2008 and 2009 can cause us to not be able to collect the full value of loans we make. We cannot assure you that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. Commercial loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Commercial loans were $1.67 billion (including $1.08 billion of commercial real estate loans), or approximately 71% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The other types of collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our loan portfolio has a large concentration of commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate lending is a large portion of our commercial loan portfolio. These loans were $1.08 billion, or approximately 64%, of our total commercial loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. More than 60% of these loans are owner occupied, which reduces the risk typically associated with commercial real estate lending since the primary source of repayment comes from the successful operation of a business instead of the cash flow generated from the rental of the property. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in a few of our markets have adversely affected some of our commercial real estate loans, and further developments could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans typically are dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. A weaker economy has an impact on the absorption period associated with lot and land development loans. When the source of repayment is reliant on the successful and timely sale of lots or land held for resale, a default on these loans becomes a greater risk. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. If the problems that have occurred in the commercial real estate markets continue, particularly within our Western market areas, the value of collateral securing our commercial real estate loans may decline and the demand for our commercial real estate loans could decrease. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then we may not be able to realize the collateral value that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Until the recent economic crisis, particularly in our Western markets in Arizona, Colorado and Montana, we generally had not experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers, but in light of the uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets nationally, there can be no guarantee that we will not continue to experience deterioration in such performance. Our commercial real estate loans also include commercial construction loans, including land acquisition and development, which involve additional risks because funds are advanced based upon estimates of costs and the estimated value of the completed project. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, commercial construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. Additionally, with the ongoing economic environment and the correction in housing prices that is occurring in many of our market areas, a decrease in demand for the properties constructed by home builders and developers could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods on loans made to such borrowers. Our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans may result in lower yields and profitability. One- to four-family residential mortgage loans comprised $175.1 million, or 7%, of our loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2009, and are secured primarily by properties located in the Midwest. These loans generally result in lower yields and lower profitability for us than other loans in Heartland’s portfolio and are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from his or her employment and the value of the property securing the loan. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, may result in a continued decrease in mortgage loan volume and increased charge-offs if we are not able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan. Our consumer loans generally have a higher degree of risk of default than our other loans. At December 31, 2009, consumer loans totaled $231.7 million, or 10%, of our total loan and lease portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one- to four-family residential loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Citizens Finance loans, net of unearned, totaled $46.4 million at December 31, 2009, or 20% of Heartland’s total consumer loan portfolio, net of unearned. Our agricultural loans may involve a greater degree of risk than other loans, and the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower’s control. At December 31, 2009, agricultural real estate loans totaled $197.9 million, or 8%, of our total loan and lease portfolio. Payments on agricultural real estate loans are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the farm property securing the loan. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The primary crops in our market areas are corn, soybeans, peanuts and wheat. Accordingly, adverse circumstances affecting these crops could have an adverse effect on our agricultural real estate loan portfolio. We also originate agricultural operating loans. At December 31, 2009, these loans totaled $58.9 million, or 3%, of our total loan and lease portfolio. As with agricultural real estate loans, the repayment of operating loans is dependent on the successful operation or management of the farm property. Likewise, agricultural operating loans involve a greater degree of risk than lending on residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment or assets such as livestock or crops. The primary livestock in our market areas include dairy cows, hogs and feeder cattle. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. We established our allowance for loan losses in consultation with management of the Bank Subsidiaries and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. Throughout 2009, we were required to significantly increase our provision for loan losses because of the impact of the declining economy and real estate assets on some of our borrowers, resulting in charge-offs and an increased level of nonperforming assets. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.80% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was approximately 54%. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Further significant provisions, or charge-offs against our allowance that result in provisions, could have a significant negative impact on our profitability. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing whether the impairment of investment securities is other-than-temporary, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability to retain our investment in the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. During 2009, a goodwill impairment charge of $12.7 million was recorded for Arizona Bank & Trust and Rocky Mountain Bank. In the event that we conclude that additional amounts of our goodwill may be impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded to earnings. Such a charge would have no impact on tangible capital. A decline in our stock price or occurrence of a triggering event following any of our quarterly earnings releases and prior to the filing of the periodic report for that period could, under certain circumstances, cause us to perform a goodwill impairment test and result in an impairment charge being recorded for that period which was not reflected in such earnings release. At December 31, 2009, we had goodwill of $27.5 million, representing approximately 9% of stockholders’ equity. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence, both negative and positive. Positive evidence necessary to overcome the negative evidence includes whether future taxable income in sufficient amounts and character within the carryback and carryforward periods is available under the tax law. When negative evidence (e.g., cumulative losses in recent years, history of operating losses or tax credit carryforwards expiring unused) exists, more positive evidence than negative evidence will be necessary. If the positive evidence is not sufficient to exceed the negative evidence, a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is established. At December 31, 2009, net deferred tax assets are approximately $23.7 million. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan for a fee. We acquire mortgage servicing rights when we originate mortgage loans and keep the servicing rights after we sell the loans. We carry mortgage servicing rights at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate our mortgage servicing rights for impairment based on the difference between the carrying amount and fair value. If temporary impairment exists, we establish a valuation allowance through a charge to earnings for the amount the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the various state agencies where we have a bank presence. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. These bank regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The FDIC has increased, and may further increase, deposit insurance premiums, negatively impacting our profitability. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the deposit insurance fund, and increases or decreases the amount of premiums it assesses based on reserve ratios for that fund, some of which are mandated by statute. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures, and the payments the FDIC must make using the resources of the deposit insurance fund to resolve such bank failures. The EESA included a provision for an increase for deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000 until December 31, 2009, and has now extended the increase to December 31, 2013, which may further increase the exposure of the deposit insurance fund to losses. Further, Heartland has not opted out of FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which provides unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000, and results in additional assessments. This program expires on June 30, 2010, and it is unknown whether Congress will extend the program. Further increases in deposit insurance premiums may be necessary in the future due to, among other things, additional increases in the number of bank failures. Any additional increase in deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to being able to better serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market areas. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity could adversely impact our business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent to our business. Current public uneasiness with the United States banking system heightens this risk, as banking customers often transfer news regarding financial difficulties or even failure of some institutions, to fear of financial difficulty or failure of even the most secure institutions. In this climate, any negative news may become cause for curtailment of business relationships, withdrawal of funds or other actions that can have a compounding effect, and could adversely affect our operations. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including; actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; acquisitions or business combinations; capital commitments by or involving Heartland or our subsidiary banks; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; new technology used or services offered by our competitors; new reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events have recently caused a decline in our stock price, and these factors as well as interest rate changes, continued unfavorable credit loss trends, or unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks could cause our stock price to remain volatile regardless of our operating results. Certain Bank Subsidiaries are subject to informal written agreements with regulators and failure to comply with these agreements could result in enforcement actions against us. Three of the Bank Subsidiaries have entered into informal written agreements with the FDIC and state regulators, which relate primarily to financial performance and credit quality. These Bank Subsidiaries have submitted three to five year business plans to their regulators and must operate within the parameters of these business plans and submit periodic reports on compliance with these plans. The agreements also require these Bank Subsidiaries to develop plans and take action to address nonperforming assets and watch-list credits. If these Bank Subsidiaries fail to comply with the terms of their respective agreements, the regulators could take enforcement action against them, including the imposition of monetary penalties or the issuance of cease and desist orders requiring corrective action. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2009, Heartland had no unresolved staff comments. ITEM 