ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The nature of forward-looking information is that such information involves significant assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Certain of our public documents and statements made by our authorized officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives acting on our behalf may include forward-looking information which will be influenced by the factors described below and by other assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information is based on assumptions, estimates, forecasts and projections regarding our future results as well as the future effectiveness of our strategic plans and our operational decisions. Forward-looking Page 7 statements made by or on behalf of us are subject to the risk that the forecasts, projections and expectations of management, or assumptions underlying such forecasts, projections and expectations, may prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, actual results and our implementation of our plans and operations may differ materially from forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. The following discussion identifies certain important factors that could affect our actual results and actions and could cause such results and actions to differ materially from forward-looking statements. WE DEPEND SUBSTANTIALLY ON OUR MAXIMO EAM PRODUCT. Most of our revenues are derived from the licensing of our Maximo EAM family of products and sales of related services and support. Our financial performance depends largely on continued market acceptance of these products. We believe that continued market acceptance and our revenue stability and growth will largely depend on our ability to continue to enhance and broaden the capabilities of these products. If we are unable to continue to enhance and improve Maximo EAM so that it delivers the capabilities required by existing and potential customers and remains competitive with other products in the market, our revenues, margins and results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. THE MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS ARE MATURE AND SATURATED AND MAY PRESENT LIMITED OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH, AND ARE CROWDED WITH LARGER COMPETITORS THAT MAY HAVE SIGNIFICANT ADVANTAGES. Maximo has been the industry-leading plant floor capital asset maintenance product for a number of years, and we have acquired a large number of customers in this market. However, most large industrial organizations have made significant investments in systems that support the maintenance of their capital assets, and opportunities for new Maximo sales in the EAM market are in a state of continuous decline. In addition, our new ITAM and service desk products represent new entrants into mature markets that are currently served by larger competitors, and that are not growing. - The emergence and growth of the EAM, ITAM and service desk markets have attracted a large number of strong competitors, and most of the largest software companies that sell into complementary markets have developed competing EAM, ITAM or service desk products. - In the EAM market, large ERP vendors have developed products that compete with Maximo EAM and that are tightly integrated with the rest of their ERP product suites. In the ITAM and service desk markets, larger companies than ours have developed competing products that are delivered as part of a broader product offering. While our products may have technical or functional advantages over those of our competition, these companies are all larger than ours, they may have the ability to quickly eliminate our competitive advantages, and they are able to market their products as part of a larger solution and take advantage of customers' desire to consolidate their information technology (IT) systems onto fewer platforms. It is likely that these markets will continue to mature, there will be fewer sales opportunities for the Company within the EAM market, and competitive forces will put downward pressure on our average sales prices and rates of success. To be competitive in the EAM market, we have made significant investments in Maximo EAM to meet the needs of specific industries in which we have a presence, such as the nuclear energy, transportation, power generation, transmission and distribution, and other industries. We refer to these industry-specific Maximo offerings as "Industry Solutions." To address the ITAM and service desk markets, we have invested heavily in the development and release of MXES. While we continue to strengthen our Maximo EAM offering, and while we offer our products as an integrated suite that manages all of our customers' critical assets in a manner that none of our competitors are able, these efforts may not be sufficient to overcome the effects of maturity, saturation and intense competition in our markets, and our revenues, margins, results of operation and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Page 8 OUR EFFORTS TO REACH INTO NEW MARKETS WITH NEW PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. Given the maturity and saturation of the traditional EAM market, in order to maintain revenues at their current levels and to grow our business, we have recently broadened our product offerings in order to develop additional sources of revenues, and we continue to do so. With the initial release of Maximo Enterprise Suite (MXES), in March 2005, we have delivered products that address the Help Desk and Service Desk markets, and these markets are new to us. We are planning significant enhancements to this initial release, and will continue to broaden this offering. Our continuing development of MXES and of our Maximo EAM Industry Solutions, and our ability to derive revenue and grow, is subject to the following risks, among others: - We may not be able to develop and market our new products on time, with acceptable quality or with functions and features that meet the requirements of customers in these markets. - The MXES products may not contain all of the functionality deemed necessary by prospective buyers in these markets, and certain of our competitors in these new markets also offer complementary and sometimes fully integrated products that we do not offer. It may take longer than we anticipate for us to establish our presence in new markets, develop a robust and dependable flow of sales opportunities and establish predictable closure rates and revenue streams. - It is possible that our sales, service or support personnel may not be adequately trained and/or staffed to sell, implement or support the new products. Newly developed products require a higher level of development, distribution and support expenditures in the early stages of their product life cycles. - In the event that our development efforts do not progress as intended, or if our new product releases or technologies are not successful in the markets they are intended to address, we may increase our rate of expenditure in this area over and above the level of investment experienced in the past or previously projected, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operation or financial condition. - We may not derive revenues from MXES in proportion to our development investment and sales efforts, and those efforts may serve as a significant distraction from our efforts to maintain revenues at current levels in our traditional EAM market. - Our positioning of the combination of our traditional EAM products and our ITAM and service desk products in a single offering as a logical suite of products may not be accepted in the marketplace. As a result of this and other factors, we may not be able to benefit from the trend among customers to consolidate their IT systems, and we may not be successful in our attempts to "cross-sell" our new products into our existing accounts, or our traditional EAM products to customers primarily interested in our new products. If any of our newly developed products do not gain market acceptance and generate revenues from new industries or markets, we may not be able to grow our business or maintain revenues at current levels, and our revenues, margins, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. OUR SALES EFFORTS DEPEND IN PART ON STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS AND RESELLER ARRANGEMENTS WITH OTHER COMPANIES. We have entered into strategic relationships with various larger companies, such as IBM, SAIC, BearingPoint and Accenture LLP. In order to generate revenue through these relationships, each party must coordinate with and support the other's sales and marketing efforts, and each party must make significant sales and marketing investments. Our ability to generate revenues through these relationships depends in large part upon the efforts of these other companies, which are outside of our control. The efforts of these companies may in turn be influenced by factors Page 9 internal to these companies that impact their desire or ability to execute, by changes in their strategies, or by developments in their respective industries or markets, that we fail to anticipate. In addition, we are renewing our focus on generating software license sales through value-added resellers, systems integrators and other indirect sales channels. The Company may have difficulty or we may experience delays in establishing the infrastructure necessary to initiate, maintain and support these channel relationships, and these relationships may either not materialize or they may fail to produce additional sales, at all or within the timeframe that we currently anticipate. To the extent that these channels are focused on our new product offerings, they are vulnerable to unknown problems with our new products or gaps in our new offerings. As a company we do not have experience in supporting channel relationships in this new market, and we may fail to develop the infrastructure or deliver the resources necessary to successfully support these new channel relationships. We may not derive revenues from in proportion to our investment in channel sales, and those efforts may serve as a significant distraction from our direct sales efforts. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO KEEP PACE WITH THE RAPID CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY AND CUSTOMER DEMAND THAT CHARACTERIZE OUR INDUSTRY, OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION COULD BE IMPAIRED. The computer software industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements and frequent product introductions and enhancements by us and by our competitors. Our success depends on our abilities to enhance our current products, to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, to respond to evolving customer requirements and changing industry standards, to offer functionality and other innovations that are unique to our products and superior to those of our competitors, and ultimately to achieve market acceptance. In particular, we believe that we must continue to innovate and develop new functionality, to respond quickly to users' needs for new functionality and to advances in hardware and operating systems, and that we must continue to create products that conform to industry standards regarding the communication and interoperability among software, hardware and communications products of many different vendors. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and changes in market definitions or changes in customer requirements within particular market segments, or if we have any significant delays in product development or introduction, then we could lose competitiveness and revenues. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS ARE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS AND TO SEASONAL VARIATION. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant period-to-period fluctuations in revenues and operating results. In addition, our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated historically due to the number and timing of product introductions and enhancements, customers delaying their purchasing decisions in anticipation of new product releases, the budgeting and purchasing cycles of customers, the timing of product shipments and the timing of marketing and product development expenditures. We typically realize a significant portion of our revenue from sales of software licenses in the last two weeks of each quarter, frequently even in the last few days of a quarter. Failure to close a small number of large software license contracts may have a significant impact on revenues for the quarter and could, therefore, result in significant fluctuations in quarterly revenues and operating results, and divergence of those results from our expectations. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE. The markets for strategic asset management software such as Maximo EAM, Maximo ITAM and Maximo Enterprise Suite (MXES) are fragmented by geography, by market and industry segments, by hardware platform and by industry orientation, and are characterized by a large number of competitors including both independent software vendors and certain ERP vendors. Independent software vendors include DataStream Systems, Inc. and Indus International, Inc. We also compete with integrated ERP Page 10 systems, which include maintenance modules offered by several large vendors, such as SAP and Oracle. In the ITAM market we compete with companies such as Peregrine Systems (which has agreed to be acquired by Hewlett-Packard Company), Computer Associates and BMC Software. MXES will compete with all of these companies, and in the Help Desk and Service Desk markets MXES will compete with BMC Software (which recently acquired the Remedy help desk product) and Hewlett-Packard. Maximo also encounters competition from vendors of low cost maintenance management systems designed initially for use by a single user or limited number of users as vendors of these products upgrade their functionality and performance to enter the enterprise market. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, marketing, service and support and technological resources than we do. To the extent that such competitors increase their focus on the asset maintenance, planning and cost systems markets, or on the industrial supply chain market, we could be at a competitive disadvantage. Current or potential competitors may combine with each other or make strategic acquisitions, thereby increasing their ability to deliver products that better address the needs of our customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully should this occur and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT US TO SPECIAL RISKS. A significant portion of our total revenues and expenses are derived and incurred from operations outside the U.S. Our ability to sell our products internationally is subject to a number of risks. General economic and political conditions in each country could adversely affect demand for our products and services. Exposure to currency fluctuations and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable could affect our sales. We could be affected by the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign import laws, U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements. Trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements subject us to additional regulation and may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and increase our operating costs. OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY PROVIDERS OF SOFTWARE AND SERVICES, AND FAILURE OF THESE PARTIES TO PERFORM AS EXPECTED, OR TERMINATION OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH THEM, COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We have entered into nonexclusive license agreements with other software vendors, pursuant to which we incorporate into our products and solutions software providing certain application development, hardware and network discovery, user interface, mobile technology, report writing, application servers, business intelligence, content and graphics capabilities developed by these companies. If we cannot renew these licenses (at all or on commercially reasonable terms), or if any of such vendors were to become unable to support and enhance their products, we could be required to devote additional resources to the enhancement and support of these products or to acquire or develop software providing equivalent capabilities, which could cause delays in the development and introduction of products incorporating such capabilities. WE MAY HAVE EXPOSURE TO ADDITIONAL TAX LIABILITIES. We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes (e.g., import/export duties, and payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes) in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. The amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We are regularly subject to examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision and accruals for taxes. While we believe that we have properly interpreted applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, there could be a material and adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Page 11 CHANGES IN REGULATIONS OR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT US. New laws, regulations or standards related to us or our products, and new accounting pronouncements, could be implemented or changed in a manner that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be eligible for several tax benefits provided for under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which was signed into law on October 22, 2004. The potential tax benefits include a temporary 85% foreign dividends received deduction for certain dividends received from controlled foreign corporations. There are several statutory requirements, which must be met if we determine that the 85% dividends received deduction is advantageous. However, if we do not appropriately comply with the statutory requirements then the 85% foreign dividends received deduction could be forfeited resulting in a potentially adverse affect on our results of operations. WE MAY PERFORM MORE FIXED PRICE SERVICES CONTRACTS. A trend has emerged and is continuing among customers in our market towards demanding consulting and implementation services on a fixed-price basis, whereby we agree to deliver the contract requirements for a fixed fee regardless of the number of person-hours actually provided, as opposed to our traditional services arrangements where we deliver services on a time-and-materials basis. In cases where services are provided either for the future delivery of functionality or on a fixed price basis and our standard software is licensed at the same time, and if the services are essential to the overall solution desired by the customer or if we cannot determine the fair value of the services being delivered, then we may not be able to recognize the software license revenue from such transactions at the time the agreements are signed, but rather may be required to recognize such license revenue under the contract method of accounting, or to recognize a greater portion (or all) of the revenue from these transactions as services revenue. This would likely result in a postponement of recognition of, or even a reduction in, software license revenues, and have an adverse affect on our results of our operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology. We currently have two U.S. patents (and other corresponding patents or applications pending in various foreign countries), and we protect our technology primarily through copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements. Our software products are sometimes licensed to customers under "shrink-wrap" or "click- wrap" licenses included as part of the product packaging or acknowledged by customers who register online. Although, in larger sales, our shrink-wrap and click-wrap licenses may be accompanied by specifically negotiated agreements signed by the licensee, in many cases our shrink-wrap and click-wrap licenses are not negotiated with or signed by individual licensees. Certain provisions of our shrink-wrap and click-wrap licenses, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of the licensed program, and limitations or liabilities and exclusions of remedies, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Finally, we sell our products through distributors and resellers, and are therefore dependent on those companies to take appropriate steps to adequately implement our contractual protections and to enforce and protect our rights. We cannot give any assurance that the steps that we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or development by others of similar technology. Although we believe that our products and technology do not infringe on any valid claim of any patent or any other proprietary rights of others, we cannot give any assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, could result in the deterioration or outright loss of our patent rights, copyrights or other intellectual property, and could potentially have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. Page 12 LOSS OF THE SERVICES OF ONE OR MORE OF OUR KEY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OR INABILITY TO RECRUIT NEEDED SALES, SERVICES AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We are highly dependent on certain key executive officers, technical and sales employees, and the loss of one or more of such employees could have an adverse impact on our future operations. We do not have employment contracts with any personnel, and we do not maintain any so-called "key person" life insurance policies on any personnel. We continue to hire additional sales, services and technical personnel. Competition for hiring of such personnel in the software industry is intense, and from time to time we may experience difficulty in locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications within the desired geographic locations, or with certain industry specific expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES. We invest a significant portion of our cash in marketable securities. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Economic downturns and other factors subject these securities to volatility in the market place. Any resulting decline in fair value of these investments could adversely affect our financial condition. RECENTLY ISSUED REGULATIONS RELATED TO EQUITY COMPENSATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL. We have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with MRO. The FASB issued changes to U.S. GAAP that requires us to record a charge to earnings for new and unvested employee stock option grants beginning on July 1, 2005. This regulation could have a negative impact on our earnings. In addition, regulations of the Nasdaq National Market that require shareholder approval for all stock option plans, and regulations implemented by the New York Stock Exchange that prohibit NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions, could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant stock options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. WE FACE COSTS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT. We continue to evaluate our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we continue to incur substantial expenses and management's time continues to be diverted which could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. OTHER RISKS The foregoing is not a complete description of all risks relevant to our future performance, and the foregoing should be read and understood together with and in the context of similar discussions which may be contained in the documents that we file with the SEC in the future. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revision to the foregoing or any update to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 