ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risks and uncertainties. The factors described below are some of the risks that could materially harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations or prospects. OUR SUBSTANTIAL LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS COULD IMPAIR OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR INDEBTEDNESS, AND OUR ABILITY TO INCUR ADDITIONAL DEBT TO FUND FUTURE NEEDS. We have incurred substantial amounts of debt, and our level of debt may affect our operations and our ability to make payments required by our debt agreements. As of December 31, 2006, our total indebtedness was approximately $675.3 million. Our level of indebtedness could affect our future operations. For example: * our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes in the future may be limited; * a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, and will not be available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business purposes; * we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns or other adverse developments than less leveraged competitors; and * borrowings under a portion of our debt facilities bear interest at short-term market rates, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on, or to reduce or refinance, indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and resulting cash flow. To a certain extent, our future performance will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business, or businesses that we may acquire in the future, will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service all of our debt. We may need additional funding from either debt or equity offerings in the future in order to refinance our existing debt or to continue to grow our business. We cannot be sure that we will have access to any such sources of funding on satisfactory terms or on a timely basis or at all. THE TERMS OF OUR INDEBTEDNESS IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT RESTRICTIONS ON OUR OPERATING AND FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY. The indentures governing our outstanding senior subordinated notes and the agreement governing our credit facility contain various covenants that limit our ability, to, among other things: * incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; * make restricted payments, including dividends; * create or permit to exist certain liens; * enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; * make investments; * enter into transactions with affiliates; and 6 * enter into new businesses. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our credit facility also contains maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage financial ratios that we must comply with on a quarterly basis. Our ability to meet these financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, such as general economic conditions. Our failure to maintain applicable financial ratios, in certain circumstances, would prevent us from borrowing additional amounts under our credit facility, and could result in a default under that facility. A default could cause the indebtedness outstanding under the facility and, by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, the senior subordinated notes and any other indebtedness we may then have, to become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facility could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral granted to them which secures that indebtedness. If the lenders under our credit facility were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. THERE ARE ADDITIONAL BORROWINGS AVAILABLE TO US THAT COULD FURTHER EXACERBATE THE RISKS DESCRIBED ABOVE. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The credit facility agreement and the terms of the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes limit, but do not prohibit us from doing so. After funding the Printegra acquisition on February 12, 2007, our revolving credit facility would permit additional borrowings of up to $92 million, after considering letters of credit issued against our revolving credit facility, the majority of which support our workers compensation programs. We expect to fund the acquisition of Cadmus by incurring approximately $440 million of additional debt, including assuming a portion of existing Cadmus debt. If this additional debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. THE INSTRUMENTS GOVERNING OUR CURRENT DEBT CONTAIN CROSS-DEFAULT PROVISIONS THAT MAY CAUSE ALL OF THE DEBT ISSUED UNDER SUCH INSTRUMENTS TO BECOME IMMEDIATELY DUE AND PAYABLE AS A RESULT OF A DEFAULT UNDER AN UNRELATED DEBT INSTRUMENT. Our credit facility and the indenture pursuant to which our existing senior subordinated notes were issued contain several financial and operating covenants and require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our failure to comply with the obligations contained in the credit facility or the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes could result in an event of default under our credit facility, or the senior subordinated notes indenture, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under other instruments to become immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds through any number of alternative available sources, which funds may not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Alternatively, such a default would require us to sell our assets and otherwise curtail operations in order to pay our creditors. TO THE EXTENT THAT WE MAKE SELECT ACQUISITIONS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE THE ACQUIRED BUSINESSES INTO OUR BUSINESS. In the past, we have grown rapidly through acquisitions. In July 2006, we acquired Rx Technology and in February 2007, we acquired Printegra. We expect to close the purchase of Cadmus in March 2007. In addition, we intend to pursue additional favorable acquisition opportunities. Although we believe that our experience in making acquisitions is an important capability, the terms governing our current indebtedness limit the acquisitions that we may currently pursue. In addition, to the extent that we pursue additional acquisitions, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify and acquire other businesses on favorable terms or that, if we are able to acquire businesses on favorable terms, we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our current business, or profitably manage them. 7 OUR INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. The printing industry in which we compete is extremely fragmented and highly competitive. In the commercial printing market, we compete against large, diversified and financially stronger printing companies, as well as regional and local commercial printers, many of which are capable of competing with us on volume, price and production quality. In the envelope market, we compete primarily with a few multi-plant and many single-plant companies servicing regional and local markets. In the printed office products market, we compete primarily with document printers with nationwide manufacturing locations and regional or local printers. We believe there currently is excess capacity in the printing industry, which has resulted in excessive price competition that may continue. We are constantly seeking ways to reduce our costs, become more efficient and attract customers. However, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be successful, or that our competitors will not be more successful in their similar efforts. If we fail to reduce costs and increase productivity, or to meet customer demand for new value-added products, services or technologies, we may face decreased revenues and profit margins in markets where we encounter price competition, which in turn could reduce our cash flow and profitability. THE PRINTING BUSINESS WE COMPETE IN GENERALLY DOES NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CUSTOMER AGREEMENTS, AND OUR PRINTING OPERATIONS MAY BE SUBJECT TO QUARTERLY AND CYCLICAL FLUCTUATIONS. The printing industry in which we compete is generally characterized by individual orders from customers or short-term contracts. Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase products or services from us. Most customer orders are for specific printing jobs, and repeat business largely depends on our customers' satisfaction with the work we do. Although our business does not depend on any one customer or group of customers, we cannot be sure that any particular customer will continue to do business with us for any period of time. In addition, the timing of particular jobs or types of jobs at particular times of year may cause significant fluctuations in the operating results of our various printing operations in any given quarter. We depend to some extent on sales to certain industries, such as the advertising and automotive industries and a sizeable percentage of our commercial printing sales are related to advertising. To the extent these industries experience downturns; the results of our operations are adversely affected. FACTORS AFFECTING THE UNITED STATES (U.S.) POSTAL SERVICE CAN IMPACT DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Most envelopes used in the U.S. are sent through the mail and, as a result, postal rates can significantly affect envelope usage. Historically, increases in postal rates, relative to changes in the cost of alternative delivery means and/or advertising media, have resulted in temporary reductions in the growth rate of mail sent, including direct mail, which is a meaningful portion of our envelope volume. A postal rate increase is expected in 2007. We cannot be sure that direct mail marketers will not reduce their volume as a result of any such increases. Because postal rate increases in the U.S. are outside our control, we can provide no assurance that any increases in U.S. postal rates will not have a negative effect on the level of mail sent, or the volume of envelopes purchased. In such event, we may experience a decrease in cash flow, profitability or financial position. Factors other than postal rates that detrimentally affect the volume of mail sent through the U.S. postal system may also negatively affect our business. Congress enacted a federal "Do Not Call" registry in response to consumer backlash against telemarketers and is contemplating enacting so- called "anti-spam" legislation in response to consumer complaints about unsolicited e-mail advertisements. If similar legislation becomes directed at direct mail advertisers, our business could be negatively affected. INCREASES IN PAPER COSTS AND ANY DECREASES IN THE AVAILABILITY OF PAPER COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Paper costs represent a significant portion of our cost of materials. Changes in paper pricing generally do not affect the operating margins of our commercial printing business because the 8 transactional nature of the business provides the ability to pass on any announced paper price increases, dependent upon the competitive environment. Paper pricing does, however, impact the operating margins of our envelope business as price increases for those paper grades traditionally have not been as easy to pass on due to the contractual nature of the relationships with that customer base and the market expectations surrounding that business. Moreover, rising paper costs and their consequent impact on our pricing could lead to a decrease in our volume of units sold. Although we have been successful in negotiating favorable pricing terms with paper vendors, we cannot be certain we will be successful in negotiating favorable pricing terms in the future. This may result in decreased sales volumes as well as decreased cash flow and profitability. We depend on the availability of paper in manufacturing most of our products. During periods of tight paper supply, many paper producers allocate shipments of paper based on the historical purchase levels of customers. As a result of our large volume paper purchases from several paper producers, we generally have not experienced difficulty in obtaining adequate quantities of paper, although we have occasionally experienced minor delays in delivery. Although we believe that our attractiveness to vendors as a large volume paper purchaser will continue to enable us to receive adequate supplies of paper in the future, unforeseen developments in world paper markets coupled with shortages of raw paper could result in a decrease in supply, which in turn would cause a decrease in the volume of products we could produce and sell and a corresponding decrease in our cash flow and profitability. WE REPORTED LOSSES FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS IN 2006, 2005 AND 2004, AND IT IS UNCERTAIN WHETHER OUR RETURN TO PROFITABILITY CAN BE ASSURED. We reported a loss in 2006 from continuing operations primarily as a result of expenses related to our restructuring initiatives and our loss on early extinguishment of debt, in 2005 primarily as a result of expenses related to our restructuring initiatives, as well as the change in the composition of our board of directors in September 2005, and in 2004, primarily as a result of the loss on early extinguishment of debt. Our ability to return to profitability depends on the continued realization of the benefits of our restructuring initiatives and our ability to implement our current strategic plan. THE AVAILABILITY OF THE INTERNET AND OTHER ELECTRONIC MEDIA MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our business is highly dependent upon the demand for envelopes sent through the mail. Such demand comes from utility companies, banks and other financial institutions, among other companies. Our printing business also depends upon demand for printed advertising and business forms, among other products. Consumers increasingly use the internet and other electronic media to purchase goods and services, and for other purposes such as paying utility and credit card bills. Advertisers use the internet and other electronic media for targeted campaigns directed at specific electronic user groups. Large and small businesses use electronic media to conduct business, send invoices and collect bills. As a result, we expect the demand for envelopes and other printed materials for these purposes to decline over time. In addition, companies have begun to deliver annual reports electronically rather than in printed form, which could reduce demand for our high impact color printing. Although we expect other trends, such as the growth of targeted direct mail campaigns based upon mailing lists generated by electronic purchases, to cause overall demand for envelopes and other printed materials to continue growing at rates comparable to recent historical levels, we cannot be certain that the acceleration of the trend towards electronic media will not cause a decrease in the demand for our products. If demand for our products decreases, our cash flow or profitability could materially decrease. WE DEPEND ON GOOD LABOR RELATIONS. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 6,600 employees, of which approximately 1,300 were members of various local labor unions. If our unionized employees were to engage in a concerted strike or other work stoppage, or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a 9 disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both. A lengthy strike could result in a material decrease in our cash flow or profitability. ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste generation, handling, management and disposal, and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, some of the sellers from which we have bought businesses in the past have been designated as potentially responsible parties under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, or similar legislation in Canada. CERCLA imposes strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several liability for response costs. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. We believe that we have minimal exposure as a result of such designations, either because indemnities were obtained in the course of acquisitions or because of the de minimis nature of the claims, or both. We also believe that our current operations are in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot be certain, however, that available indemnities will be adequate to cover all costs or that currently unknown conditions or matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or operations in the future. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and other key management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel, or attract additional qualified management in the future. In addition, the success of any acquisitions we may pursue may depend, in part, on our ability to retain management personnel of the acquired companies. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our managerial personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 