Item 1A. Risk Factors Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risks and uncertainties. The factors described below are some of the risks that could materially harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations or prospects. The recent U.S. and global economic conditions have adversely affected us and could continue to do so. The current U.S. and global economic conditions have affected and, most likely, will continue to affect our results of operations and financial position. A significant part of our business relies on our customers’ printing spend. A prolonged downturn in the U.S. and global economy and an uncertain economic outlook has reduced the demand for printed materials and related offerings that we provide our customers. Consequently, the reductions and delays in our customers’ spending have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We believe the current economic downturn will result in decreased net sales, operating income and earnings while also impacting our ability to manage our inventory and customer receivables. The downturn may also result in increased restructuring and related charges, impairments relating to goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, and write-offs associated with inventories or customer receivables. These uncertainties about future economic conditions in a very challenging environment also make it difficult for us to forecast our operating results and make timely decisions about future investments. 7 Our substantial level of indebtedness could impair our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our business obligations. We currently have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant principal and interest payments. As of January 2, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion. Our level of indebtedness could affect our future operations, for example by: · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business purposes; · making it more difficult for us to satisfy all of our debt obligations, thereby increasing the risk of triggering a cross-default provision; · increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns or other adverse developments relative to less leveraged competitors; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes in the future; and · increasing our cost of borrowing to satisfy business needs. We may be unable to service or refinance our debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to reduce or refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future financial and operating performance, and prevailing market conditions. Our future performance will be affected by the impact of general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. We cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount necessary to service our debt. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will be required to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt to avoid defaulting on our debt obligations or to meet other business needs. Such a refinancing of our indebtedness could result in higher interest rates, could require us to comply with more onerous covenants that further restrict our business operations, could be restricted by another of our debt instruments outstanding, or refinancing opportunities may not be available at all. The terms of our indebtedness impose significant restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. Our senior subordinated and senior note indentures, and our recent senior second lien note indenture, along with our senior secured credit facility agreement contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · make restricted payments, including dividends and prepaying indebtedness; · create or permit certain liens; · enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; · make investments, including capital expenditures; · amend organizational documents and change accounting methods; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · enter into new businesses. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or incur needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our senior secured credit facility also contains a schedule of financial ratios including a minimum interest coverage ratio that we must comply with on a quarterly basis, and maximum first lien leverage and total leverage financial ratio that we must be in compliance with at all times. Our ability to meet these financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, such as further deterioration in general economic conditions. We are also required to provide certain financial information on a quarterly basis. Our failure to maintain applicable financial ratios, in certain circumstances, or effective internal controls would prevent us from borrowing additional amounts, and could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility. A default could cause the indebtedness outstanding under the senior secured credit facility and, by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, the senior subordinated, senior and senior second lien notes and any other indebtedness we may then have, to become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility and senior second lien indenture could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding, or proceed against the collateral granted to them which secures that indebtedness. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facility agreement and/or our senior second lien indenture were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. 8 There are additional borrowings available to us that could further exacerbate our risk exposure from debt. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our senior secured credit facility and senior subordinated, senior and senior second lien notes indentures and our other debt instruments limit, but do not prohibit us from doing so. If we incur additional debt above our current outstanding levels, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. To the extent that we make select acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. In the past, we have grown rapidly through acquisitions. We intend to continue to pursue select acquisition opportunities within the printing industry. To the extent that we seek to pursue additional acquisitions, we cannot be certain that target businesses will be available on favorable terms or that, if we are able to acquire businesses on favorable terms, we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably manage them. Successfully integrating an acquisition involves minimizing disruptions and efficiently managing substantial changes, some of which may be beyond our control. An acquisition always carries the risk that such changes, including to facility and equipment location, management and employee base, policies, philosophies and procedures, could have unanticipated effects, could require more resources than intended and could cause customers to temporarily or permanently seek alternate suppliers. A failure to realize acquisition synergies and savings could negatively impact the results of both our acquired and existing operations. A decline in our consolidated expected profitability or profitability within one of our individual reporting units could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. We have material amounts of goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, particularly the impact of a continued decline in the U.S. and global economies, could call into question the recoverability of our related goodwill, other long-lived assets, or deferred tax assets and require us to write down or write-off these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognize a valuation allowance through a charge to income tax expense. The SEC has made informal requests for information from us and we cannot predict whether the SEC will commence a formal investigation or take any other action. As previously disclosed by us, during the fourth quarter of 2007, senior management became aware of unsupported accounting entries that were recorded by a plant controller who had responsibility for two of our envelope plants. As a result, our audit committee initiated an internal review conducted by outside counsel under the direction of the audit committee. The review concluded that the accounting irregularities were isolated to those two envelope plants. As a result, we recorded adjustments to restate our historical consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 30, 2006 and interim periods in 2007, which decreased operating income in 2006 by approximately $2.3 million and approximately $4.4 million in the first nine months of 2007. In connection with these restatements and management’s evaluation of internal control over financial reporting for 2007, we identified several internal control matters that we believe were remediated. In connection with an informal inquiry, commencing in September 2008, we briefed the staff of the SEC regarding the facts surrounding our restatements and other matters. We cannot be sure of the scope of or predict whether the SEC will take any action in connection with its informal inquiry, and regardless of whether it ultimately leads to a formal SEC investigation or action against us or any current or former employees, our business (including our ability to complete financing transactions) or the trading price of our securities may be adversely impacted. Our industry is highly competitive. The printing industry in which we compete is extremely fragmented and highly competitive. In the commercial printing market, we compete against a few large, diversified and financially stronger printing companies, as well as smaller regional and local commercial printers, many of which are capable of competing with us on volume, price and production quality. In the envelope market, we compete primarily with a few multi-plant and many single-plant companies servicing regional and local markets. In the printed office products market, we compete primarily with document printers with nationwide manufacturing locations and regional or local printers. We believe there currently is excess capacity in the printing industry, which has resulted in substantial price competition that may continue as customers put product work out for competitive bid. We are constantly seeking ways to reduce our costs, become more efficient and attract customers. We cannot, however, be certain that these efforts will be successful, or that our competitors will not be more successful in their similar efforts. If we fail to reduce costs and increase productivity, or to meet customer demand for new value-added products, services or technologies, we may face decreased revenues and profit margins in markets where we encounter price competition, which in turn could reduce our cash flow and profitability. 9 The printing business we compete in generally does not have long-term customer agreements, and our printing operations may be subject to quarterly and cyclical fluctuations. The printing industry in which we compete is generally characterized by individual orders from customers or short-term contracts. A significant portion of our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase products or services from us. Most customer orders are for specific printing jobs, and repeat business largely depends on our customers’ satisfaction with our work product. Although our business does not depend on any one customer or group of customers, we cannot be sure that any particular customer will continue to do business with us for any period of time. In addition, the timing of particular jobs or types of jobs at particular times of year may cause significant fluctuations in the operating results of our various printing operations in any given quarter. We depend to some extent on sales to certain industries, such as the financial services, advertising, pharmaceutical, automotive and office products industries. To the extent these industries experience downturns; the results of our operations may be adversely affected. Factors affecting the U.S. Postal Service can impact demand for our products. Historically, increases in postal rates have resulted in reductions in the volume of mail sent, including direct mail, which is a meaningful portion of our envelope volume. The U.S. Postal Service enacted such increases in May 2007, May 2008 and 2009. As postal rate increases in the U.S. are outside our control, we can provide no assurance that any future increases in U.S. postal rates will not have a negative effect on the level of mail sent or the volume of envelopes purchased. If such events were to occur, we may experience a decrease in revenues and profitability. The U.S. Postal Service has also indicated the potential need to reduce delivery days from six to five. We can provide no assurance that such a change would not impact our customers’ decisions to use direct mail products, which may in turn cause a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Factors other than postal rates that affect the volume of mail sent through the U.S. postal system may also negatively affect our business. Congress enacted a federal “Do Not Call” registry in response to consumer backlash against telemarketers and is contemplating enacting so-called “anti-spam” legislation in response to consumer complaints about unsolicited e-mail advertisements. If similar legislation becomes enacted for direct mail advertisers, our business could be adversely affected. The availability of the internet and other electronic media may adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the demand for envelopes sent through the mail. Such demand comes from utility companies, banks and other financial institutions, among other companies. Our printing business also depends upon demand for printed advertising and business forms, among other products. Consumers increasingly use the internet and other electronic media to purchase goods and services, and for other purposes such as paying utility and credit card bills. Advertisers use the internet and other electronic media for targeted campaigns directed at specific electronic user groups. Large and small businesses use electronic media to conduct business, send invoices and collect bills. In addition, companies have begun to deliver annual reports electronically rather than in printed form, which could reduce demand for our high impact color printing. Although other trends, such as the current growth of targeted direct mail campaigns based upon mailing lists generated by electronic purchases, may offset these declines in whole or in part, we cannot be certain that the acceleration of the trend towards electronic media will not cause a decrease in the demand for our products. If demand for our products decreases, our cash flow or profitability could materially decrease. Increases in paper costs and any decreases in the availability of paper could have a material adverse effect on our business. Paper costs represent a significant portion of our cost of materials. Changes in paper pricing generally do not affect the operating margins of our commercial printing business because the transactional nature of the business allows us to pass on most announced increases in paper prices to our customers. However, our ability to pass on increases in paper price is dependent upon the competitive environment at any given time. Paper pricing also affects the operating margins of our envelopes, forms and labels business. We have historically been less successful in immediately passing on such paper price increases due to several factors, including contractual restrictions in certain cases, and the inability to quickly update catalog prices in other instances. Moreover, rising paper costs and their consequent impact on our pricing could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. 10 We depend on the availability of paper in manufacturing most of our products. During periods of tight paper supply, many paper producers allocate shipments of paper based on the historical purchase levels of customers. In the past, we have occasionally experienced minor delays in delivery. Any future delay in availability could negatively impact our cash flow and profitability. We depend on good labor relations. As of January 2, 2010, we have approximately 8,700 employees worldwide, of which approximately 13% of our employees are members of various local labor unions. If our unionized employees were to engage in a concerted strike or other work stoppage, or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both. A lengthy strike could result in a material decrease in our cash flow or profitability. Environmental laws may affect our business. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste generation, handling, management and disposal, and remediation of contaminated sites. Currently unknown environmental conditions or matters at our existing and prior facilities, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations could result in increased compliance or remediation costs that, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our business or operations in the future. We are dependent on key management personnel. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our executive officers and other key management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel, or attract additional qualified management in the future. In addition, the success of any acquisitions we may pursue may depend, in part, on our ability to retain management personnel of the acquired companies. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our managerial personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 