Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks before you decide to buy or hold shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our stock. This and other public reports may contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. Those forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, as more fully described below and elsewhere in our public reports. We do not undertake to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. 11 Table of Contents Worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening materially and adversely affect our business. Our business has been materially and adversely affected by changes in regional, national or global economic conditions. Such changes have included or may include reduced consumer spending, reduced availability of capital, inflation, deflation, adverse changes in interest rates, reduced energy availability and increased energy costs, and government initiatives to manage economic conditions. Continuing instability in financial markets and the deterioration of other national and global economic conditions may have further materially adverse effects on our operations, financial results or liquidity, including the following: · the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers; · financial instability of the financial institutions where we have our cash balances invested could result in loss of our principal balance; · one or more of the financial institutions that make available our revolving credit facility may become unable to fulfill their funding obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity; · it may become even more costly or difficult for us to obtain the agreed or additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facility; and · our assets may be impaired or subject to write down or write off. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions may cause consumers of our products to postpone or refrain from spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values, or other adverse economic events or conditions, which could materially reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Further deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects, result in wide-ranging, adverse and prolonged effects on general business conditions, and materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. Failure to comply with industry regulations could result in reduced sales and increased costs. The design, capacity and quality of most of our products and manufacturing processes are subject to numerous and extensive regulations and standards promulgated by governmental, quasi-governmental and industry organizations. These regulations and standards are highly technical, complex and subject to frequent revision. If our products or manufacturing processes fail to comply with any regulations or standards, we may not be able to manufacture and market our products profitably. Failure to comply with regulations and standards could therefore materially reduce our sales and increase our costs. If we fail to compete effectively, our revenue and profit margins could decline. We face a variety of competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, other technologies may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Other companies may find our markets attractive and enter those markets. Competitive pricing, including price competition or the introduction of new products, has in the past and may in the future have material adverse effects on our revenues and profit margins. Our ability to compete effectively depends to a significant extent on the specification or approval of our products by architects, engineers, building inspectors, building code officials and customers. If a significant segment of those communities were to decide that the design, materials, manufacturing, testing or quality control of our products is inferior to that of any of our competitors, our sales and profits would be materially reduced. If we lose all or part of a large customer, our sales and profits would decline. We have substantial sales to a few large customers. Loss of all or part of our sales to a large customer would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. Our largest customer accounted for 9%, 10% and 10% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 14 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. This customer may endeavor to replace our products in some or all markets, with lower-priced products supplied by others or may otherwise reduce its purchases of our products. We also might reduce our dependence on our largest customer by reducing or terminating sales to one or more of the customer’s subsidiaries. Any reduction in, or termination of, our sales to this customer would at least temporarily, and possibly longer cause a material reduction in our net sales, income from operations and net income. A reduction in or elimination of our sales to our largest customer, or another of our larger customers, would increase our relative dependence on our remaining large customers. In addition, our customers include retailers and distributors. Retail and distribution businesses have consolidated over time, which could increase the material adverse effect of losing any of them. Increases in prices of raw materials could negatively affect our sales and profits. Our principal raw material is steel, including stainless steel. The steel industry is highly cyclical. Numerous factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, competition, worldwide demand, material and labor costs, energy costs, foreign exchange rates, import duties and other trade restrictions, influence prices for our raw 12 Table of Contents materials. Consolidation among domestic integrated steel producers, changes in supply and demand in steel markets, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions, and other events have led to volatility in steel costs. The domestic steel market is heavily influenced by three major United States manufacturers. We have not always been able, and in the future we might not be able, to increase our product prices in amounts that correspond to increases in costs of raw materials, without materially and adversely affecting our sales and profits. We have not attempted to hedge against changes in prices of steel or other raw materials. In recent years, however, we have increased our steel purchases in an effort to mitigate the effects of rising steel prices. In some years since 2007 our sales have declined with the declines in the housing and financial markets. As a result, our inventory fluctuated substantially. Inventory fluctuation can materially and adversely affect our margins, cash flow and profits. If we cannot protect our technology, we will not be able to compete effectively. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, in part through patents. We might not be able to protect or rely on our patents. Patents might not issue pursuant to pending patent applications. Others might independently develop the same or similar technology, develop around the patented aspects of any of our products or proposed products, or otherwise obtain access to or circumvent our proprietary technology. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology to maintain our competitive position. We might not be able to protect our know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our significant products, our sales and profits could be materially reduced. In attempting to protect our proprietary information, we sometimes initiate lawsuits against competitors and others that we believe have infringed or are infringing our rights. In such an event, the defendant may assert counterclaims to complicate or delay the litigation or for other reasons. Litigation may be very costly and may result in adverse judgments that affect our sales and profits materially and adversely. Integrating acquired businesses may divert management’s attention away from our day-to-day operations. We pursue acquisitions of product lines or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, for example: · overvaluation of acquired businesses; · difficulties assimilating the operations and products of acquired businesses; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · undisclosed existing or potential liabilities of acquired businesses; · slow acceptance or rejection of acquired businesses’ products by our customers; · risks of entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience; · litigation involving activities, properties or products of acquired businesses; · increased cost of regulatory compliance and enforcement; · consumer and other claims related to products of acquired businesses; and · the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. In addition, future acquisitions may involve issuance of additional equity securities that dilute the value of our existing equity securities, increase our debt, cause impairment related to goodwill and cause impairment of, and amortization expenses related to, other intangible assets, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any acquisition could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Significant costs to integrate our acquired operations may negatively affect our financial condition and the market price of our stock. We will incur costs from integrating acquired business operations, products and personnel. These costs may be significant and may include expenses and other liabilities for employee redeployment, relocation or severance, combining teams and processes in various functional areas, reorganization or closures of facilities, and relocation or disposition of excess equipment. The integration costs that we incur may negatively affect our profitability and the market price of our stock. 13 Table of Contents Our future growth may depend on our ability to penetrate new domestic and international markets, which could reduce our profitability. International construction customs, standards, techniques and methods differ from those in the United States. Laws and regulations applicable in new markets may be unfamiliar to us. Compliance may be substantially more costly than we anticipate. As a result, we may need to redesign products, or invent or design new products, to compete effectively and profitably in new markets. We expect that we will need significant time, which may be years, to generate substantial sales or profits in new markets. Other significant challenges to conducting business in foreign countries include, among other factors, local acceptance of our products, political instability, changes in import and export regulations, changes in tariff and freight rates, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and currency controls. We might not be able to penetrate these markets and any market penetration that occurs might not be timely or profitable. If we do not penetrate these markets within a reasonable time, we will be unable to recoup part or all of the significant investments we will have made in attempting to do so. We may decide to dispose of assets and incur material expenses in doing so. We have terminated in the past and may terminate in the future product lines or businesses if we determine that the cost of operating them is not warranted by their expected profitability. For example, we sold the assets of our subsidiary Simpson Dura-Vent Company, Inc. in 2010, we terminated our heavy-duty mechanical anchor systems business in Ireland and Germany in 2012, and we sold our CarbonWrap concrete construction assets in 2013. In addition to employee severance, lease buy-outs and other shut-down costs, the net realizable value may be substantially less than our carrying cost of the assets of terminated operations, resulting in material costs and materially and adversely affecting our sales, assets, profitability and financial condition. Seasons and business cycles affect our operating results. Our sales are seasonal, with operating results varying from quarter to quarter. With some exceptions, our sales and income have historically been lower in the first and fourth quarters than in the second and third quarters of the year, as customers purchase construction materials in the late spring and summer months for the construction season. In addition, weather conditions, such as unseasonably warm, cold or wet weather, which affect, and sometimes delay or accelerate installation of some of our products, significantly affect our results of operations. Political and economic events can also affect our sales and profitability. We have little control over the timing of customer purchases. Sales that we anticipate in one quarter may occur in another quarter, affecting both quarters’ results. In addition, we incur significant expenses as we develop, produce and market our products in anticipation of future orders. We maintain high inventory levels and typically ship orders as we receive them, so we operate with little backlog. As a result, net sales in any quarter generally depend on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed. Planned expenditures are based primarily on sales forecasts. When sales do not meet our expectations, our operating results will be reduced for the relevant quarters, as we will have already incurred expenses based on those expectations. Our principal markets are in the building construction industry. That industry is subject to significant volatility due to real estate market cycles, fluctuations in interest rates, the availability, or lack thereof, of credit to builders and developers, inflation rates, weather, and other factors and trends. None of these factors or trends is within our control. Declines in commercial and residential construction, such as housing starts, and remodeling projects have reduced, and in the future can be expected to reduce, the demand for our products. Negative economic or construction industry performance adversely affects our business. Declines in construction activity or demand for our products have materially and adversely affected, and could in the future materially and adversely affect, our sales and profitability. Product liability claims and product recalls could harm our reputation, sales and financial condition. We design and manufacture most of our standard products and expect to continue to do so, although we buy raw materials and some manufactured products from others. We have on occasion found flaws and deficiencies in the manufacturing, design or testing of our products. We also have on occasion found flaws and deficiencies in raw materials and finished goods produced by others. Some flaws and deficiencies have not been apparent until after the products were installed by customers. Many of our products are integral to the structural soundness or safety of the structures in which they are used. If any flaws or deficiencies exist in our products and if such flaws or deficiencies are not discovered and corrected before our products are incorporated into structures, the structures could be unsafe or could suffer severe damage, 14 Table of Contents such as collapse or fire, and personal injury could result. Errors in the installation of our products, even if the products are free of flaws and deficiencies, could also cause personal injury and unsafe structural conditions. To the extent that such damage or injury is not covered by our product liability insurance and we are held to be liable, we could be required to correct such damage and to compensate persons who might have suffered injury, and our reputation, business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Even if a flaw or deficiency is discovered before any damage or injury occurs, we may need to recall products, and we may be liable for any costs necessary to replace recalled products or retrofit the affected structures. Any such recall or retrofit could entail substantial costs and adversely affect our reputation, sales and financial condition. We do not carry insurance against recall costs or the adverse business effect of a recall, and our product liability insurance may not cover retrofit costs. Claims resulting from a natural disaster might be made against us with regard to damage or destruction of structures incorporating our products. Any such claims, if asserted, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others may materially increase our expenses and reduce our profits. Other parties have in the past and may in the future claim that our products or processes infringe their patent rights and other intellectual property rights. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities in investigating, defending and resolving such claims, whether or not they are meritorious, which may materially reduce our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Litigation can be disruptive to normal business operations and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. If any such infringement claim is asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology, any of which could be costly and time-consuming. A ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit could include an injunction barring our production or sale of any infringing product. A damage award against us could include an award of royalties or lost profits and, if the court finds willful infringement, treble damages and attorneys’ fees. Complying or failing to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could affect us materially and adversely. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing emissions into the air, discharges into water, and generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. We are also subject to other federal and state laws and regulations regarding health and safety matters. Our manufacturing operations involve the use of solvents, chemicals, oils and other materials that are regarded as hazardous or toxic. We also use complex and heavy machinery and equipment that can pose severe safety hazards, especially if not properly and carefully used. Some of our products also incorporate materials that are hazardous or toxic in some forms, such as zinc and lead used in some steel galvanizing processes, chemicals used in our acrylic and epoxy anchoring products, and chemicals used in our concrete repair, strengthening and protecting products. The gun powder used in our powder-actuated tools is explosive. Misuse of other materials in some of our products could also cause injury or sickness. If we do not obtain all material licenses and permits required by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we may be subject to regulatory action by governmental authorities. If our policies and procedures do not comply in all respects with existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, our activities might violate such laws and regulations. Even if our policies and procedures do comply, but our employees fail or neglect to follow them in all respects, we might incur similar liability. Relevant laws and regulations could change or new ones could be adopted that require us to obtain additional licenses and permits and cause us to incur substantial expense. Our generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment or disposal of hazardous or toxic materials, machinery and equipment might cause injury to persons or to the environment. We may need to take remedial action if properties that we occupy are contaminated by hazardous or toxic substances. Any change in laws or regulations, any legal or regulatory violations, or any contamination, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Complying or failing to comply with new conflict minerals regulations could materially and adversely affect our supply chain, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our financial results. We are subject to new conflict mineral disclosure regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2012. Under the new regulations, public companies that manufacture products that use (either in the products or the production process) specified minerals and their derivatives, including tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, must provide disclosure annually, including whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, and in some cases must perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. Implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals, which we use in manufacturing some of our products. We will incur added costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of such minerals used in our products. We may not be able to ascertain the origins of such minerals that we use and may not be able to satisfy requests from customers to certify that our products are free of conflict minerals. These new requirements also could constrain the pool of suppliers from which we source such minerals. We may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices. Such consequences will increase costs and may materially and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and profitability. We depend on key management and technical personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. We depend on our key management and technical personnel. The loss of one or more key employees could materially and adversely affect us. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, marketing and management personnel necessary for the maintenance and expansion of our activities. We face strong competition for such personnel and may not be able to attract or retain such personnel. In addition, when we experience periods with little or no profits, a decrease in compensation based on our profits may make it difficult to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Any work stoppage or interruption by employees could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. A significant number of our employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2014 and 2015. A work stoppage or interruption by a significant number of our employees could have a material and adverse effect on our sales and profitability. International operations expose us to foreign exchange rate risk. We have foreign exchange rate risk in our international operations and through purchases from foreign vendors. We do not currently hedge this risk. Changes in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. Natural disasters could decrease our manufacturing capacity. Most of our current and planned manufacturing facilities are located in geographic regions that have experienced major natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes. Our disaster recovery plan may not be adequate or effective. We do not carry earthquake insurance. Other insurance that we carry is limited in the risks covered and the amount of coverage. Our insurance would not be adequate to cover all of our resulting costs, business interruption and lost profits when a major natural disaster occurs. A natural disaster rendering one or more of our manufacturing facilities totally or partially unusable, whether or not covered by insurance, would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Control by our principal stockholder reduces the ability of other stockholders to influence management. Barclay Simpson controls approximately 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Simpson and Thomas J Fitzmyers, the Chairman of our Board of Directors (even though Mr. Fitzmyers owns less than 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock), have significant influence with respect to the election of our directors and over some fundamental changes affecting us, such as a merger or sale of assets or amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws. 16 Table of Contents Additional financing, if needed, to fund our working capital, growth or acquisitions may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If our cash requirements for working capital or to fund our growth increase to a level that exceeds the amount of cash that we generate from operations, or if we should decide to make an acquisition that requires more cash than we have available internally and through our current credit arrangements, we will need to seek additional financing. In that event, we may need to enter into additional or new borrowing arrangements or consider equity financing. Additional or new borrowings may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to raise money by issuing and selling shares of our common or preferred stock would depend on general market conditions and the demand for our stock. We may be unable to raise adequate capital on reasonable terms by selling stock. If we sell stock, our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. Our inability to secure additional financing could prevent the expansion of our business, internally and through acquisitions. Any issuance of preferred stock may dilute your investment and reduce funds available for dividends. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Certificate of Incorporation to determine the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and to authorize the issuance of shares of any such series on such terms as our Board of Directors may approve. Any such issuance could be used to impede an acquisition of our business that our Board of Directors does not approve, further dilute the equity investments of holders of our common stock and reduce funds available for the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could drop. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to period-to-period variations in operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the construction and construction materials industries, relatively low trading volume in our common stock and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Securities market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Our issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. All of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, other than 7.7 million shares held (as of February 24, 2014) by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Options to purchase 1.0 million shares of our common stock were outstanding as of December 31, 2013, including options to purchase 0.6 million shares that were exercisable. If a substantial number of shares were sold in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 or on exercise of options, the trading price of our common stock in the public market could be adversely affected. Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make the acquisition of Simpson Manufacturing Co., Inc. and the removal of incumbent officers and directors more difficult by prohibiting stockholders holding 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from acquiring Simpson Manufacturing Co., Inc. without the consent of our Board of Directors for at least three years from the date they first hold 15% or more of the voting stock. Barclay Simpson and his affiliates are not subject to this provision of Delaware law with respect to their investment in Simpson Manufacturing Co., Inc. In addition, our Stockholder Rights Plan has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual results to vary materially from our plans, targets or projections, including: · lack of market acceptance of new products; · failing to develop new products with significant market potential; · increased labor costs, including significant increases in worker’s compensation insurance premiums and health care benefits; 17 Table of Contents · failing to increase, or even maintain, sales and profits; · failing to anticipate, appropriately invest in and effectively manage the human, information technology and logistical resources necessary to support the growth of our business, including managing the costs associated with such resources; · failing to integrate, leverage and generate expected rates of return on investments, including expansion of existing businesses and expansion through acquisitions; · failing to generate sufficient future positive operating cash flows and, if necessary, secure adequate external financing to fund our growth; and · interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels. If we change significantly the location, nature or extent of some of our manufacturing operations, we may reduce our net income. If we decide to change significantly the location, nature or extent of a portion of our manufacturing operations, we may need to record an impairment of our goodwill. Our goodwill totaled $129.2 million at December 31, 2013. Recording an impairment of our goodwill correspondingly reduces our net income. In 2007, for example, we decided to move part of our Canadian manufacturing operations to China, and as a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $10.7 million, which materially reduced our net income in 2007. Other changes or events in the future could further impair our recorded goodwill, which could also materially and adversely affect our profitability. Impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or at any time when events occur that could affect the value of such assets. Definite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or at any time when events occur that could affect the value of such assets. To determine whether a goodwill impairment has occurred, we compare fair value of each of our reporting units with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulatory authorities, unanticipated competition, loss of key customers or changes in technology or markets, can require a charge for impairment that can materially and adversely affect our reported net income and our stockholders’ equity. For example, in 2011, our annual impairment test resulted in goodwill impairment charge of $1.3 million associated with assets acquired in England in 1999 as part of our U.K. reporting unit, and in 2012, our annual impairment test resulted in goodwill impairment charge of $2.3 million associated with assets acquired in Germany in 2002 and 2008 as part of our Germany reporting unit. The carrying value of each of these reporting units exceeded their respective fair values, primarily due to reduced future expected net cash flows from weakening profit margins. If current adverse conditions in the home-building industry, the financial markets or the economy generally should continue longer than we expect, we may need to take further charges for impairment, which we are not now able to estimate, but which may be substantial. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes: · maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; · providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the consolidated financial statements; · providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and · providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of the inherent limitations of internal control, our internal control over financial reporting might not detect or prevent misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. Our growth and entry into new, globally dispersed markets puts significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. 18 Table of Contents Failure of our accounting systems could harm our business and financial results. We have implemented a commercially available Microsoft third-party accounting software system, initially focused on replacing our internally developed general ledger and purchasing and payables systems, for use in our operations in the United States, Europe and Asia. Any errors or defects in, or unavailability of, third-party software or our implementation of the systems, could result in errors in our financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect our business. If we continue to use our other internally developed accounting systems and they are not able to accommodate our future business needs, or if we find that they or any new systems we may implement contain errors or defects, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our international operations may be materially and adversely affected by factors beyond our control. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and customs vary widely among the countries where we produce or sell our products. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including, for example, lower profit margins, less protection of intellectual property and economic, political and social uncertainty in some countries. Our sales and profits depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that effectively anticipate and manage these and other risks in the countries where we do business. These and other risks may materially and adversely affect our operations in any particular country and our business as a whole. Inflation in emerging markets also makes our products more expensive there and increases the market and credit risks to which we are exposed. Our international operations depend on our successful management of our subsidiaries outside of the United States. We conduct most of our international business through wholly owned subsidiaries. Managing distant subsidiaries and fully integrating them into our business is challenging. We cannot directly supervise every aspect of the operations of our subsidiaries operating outside the United States. As a result, we rely on local managers and staff. Cultural factors and language differences can result in misunderstandings among internationally dispersed personnel. The risk that unauthorized conduct may go undetected may be greater in subsidiaries outside of the United States. These problems could adversely affect our sales and profits. Failure to comply with export, import, and sanctions laws and regulations could affect us materially and adversely. We are subject to a number of export, import and economic sanction regulations, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (the “ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (the “EAR”) and U.S. sanction regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets (“OFAC”). Foreign governments where we have operations also implement export, import and sanction laws and regulations. If we do not obtain all necessary import and export licenses required by applicable export and import regulations, including the ITAR and the EAR, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other regulatory action by governmental authorities, including, among other things, having our export or import privileges suspended. If we conduct business with any countries, entities or individuals sanctioned by OFAC or any equivalent foreign regulation or law, or otherwise fail to comply in any manner with applicable sanction regulations or laws, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other regulatory action. Even if our policies and procedures for exports, imports and sanction regulations comply, but our employees fail or neglect to follow them in all respects, we might incur similar liability. Any change in applicable export, import or sanction laws or regulations or any legal or regulatory violations could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our manufacturing facilities in China complicate our inventory management. We maintain manufacturing capability in various parts of the world, in part to allow us to serve our customers with prompt delivery of needed products. Such customer service is a significant factor in our efforts to compete with larger companies that have greater resources than we have. In recent years, we have substantially expanded our manufacturing in China. Much of the output of our manufacturing in China is and will be intended for export to other parts of Asia and elsewhere. Because of the unusually great distances between our manufacturing facilities in China and the markets to which the products made there will be shipped, we may have difficulty providing adequate service to our customers, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our attempts to provide prompt delivery may necessitate that in China we produce and keep on hand substantially more inventory of finished products than 19 Table of Contents would otherwise be needed. Inventory fluctuations can materially and adversely affect our margins, cash flow and profits. If we fail to keep pace with advances in our industry or fail to persuade customers to adopt new products we introduce, customers may not buy our products, which would adversely affect our sales and profits. Constant development of new technologies and techniques, frequent new product introductions and strong price competition characterize the construction industry. The first company to introduce a new product or technique to the market gains a competitive advantage. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products that are more effective or safer or incorporate emerging technologies better than our competitors’ products. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a competitor were to introduce superior products, or even if we announce a new product of our own. If we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development or if we focus on technologies that do not lead to better products, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products. If we fail to manufacture our products economically and market them successfully, our sales and profits would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The accounting rules applicable to public companies are subject to frequent revision. Future changes in accounting standards, guidance and interpretations could require us to change the way we measure revenue, expense or balance sheet amounts, which could result in material and adverse change to our reported results of operations or financial condition. Climate change could materially and adversely affect our business. Scientific reports indicate that, as a result of human activity: · temperatures around the world have been increasing and are likely to continue to increase, as a result of increasing atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other carbon compounds, · the frequency and severity of storms and flooding are likely to increase, · severe weather is likely to occur in places where the climate has historically been more mild, and · average sea levels have risen and are likely to continue to rise, threatening worldwide coastal development. We cannot predict the effects that these phenomena may have on our business. They might, for example: · depress or reverse economic development, · reduce the demand for construction, · increase the cost and reduce the availability of fresh water, · destroy forests, increasing the cost and reducing the availability of wood products used in construction, · increase the cost and reduce the availability of raw materials and energy, · increase the cost of capital, · increase the cost and reduce the availability of insurance covering damage from natural disasters, · lead to claims regarding the content or adequacy of our public disclosures, and · lead to new laws and regulations that increase our expenses and reduce our sales. Any of these consequences, and other consequences of climate change that we do not foresee, could materially and adversely affect our sales, profits and financial condition. We are subject to U.S. and international tax laws that could affect our financial results. We conduct international operations through our subsidiaries. Tax laws affecting international operations are complex and subject to change. Our income tax liabilities in the different countries where we operate depend in part on internal settlement prices and administrative charges among us and our subsidiaries. These arrangements require us to make judgments with which tax authorities may disagree. Tax authorities may impose additional tariffs, duties, taxes, penalties and interest on us. For example, we manufacture steel products in foreign countries for importation into the U.S. and other countries, and government agencies may impose substantial prospective or retroactive tariffs on such products. Transactions that we have arranged in light of current tax rules could have material and adverse consequences if tax rules change, and changes in tax rules or imposition of any new or increased tariffs, duties and taxes could materially and adversely affect our sales, profits and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Contracts that we file as exhibits to our public reports contain recitals, representations and warranties that may not be factually correct. The parties to any agreement or other instrument that we file as an exhibit to this or any other report did not necessarily intend that any recital, representation, warranty or other statement of purported fact in the instrument establishes or confirms any fact, even if it is worded as such. The parties generally intended such statements to allocate contractual risk between the parties, and the statements often are subject to standards of materiality that differ from the standards applicable to our reports. In addition, such statements may have been qualified by other materials that we have not filed with (or incorporated by reference into) this or any other report or document. Such exhibits should be read in the context of our other disclosures in our reports. We believe the text of each of our reports was complete and correct in all material respects when we filed it. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We depend on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. We depend on our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the world and between our personnel and our subsidiaries, customers and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Security breaches could disrupt our operations, and we could suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 