Item 1A. Risk Factors I. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO LA JOLLA PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE. We do not have sufficient financial resources to complete the current Phase 3 ASPEN study of Riquent and may not have sufficient resources to continue to operate unless we are able to raise sufficient additional capital. We will need to successfully complete the current Phase 3 ASPEN study prior to any FDA or any foreign regulatory approvals. The current Phase 3 ASPEN study is an event-driven trial requiring us to accrue a specified number of renal flares to complete the study. We currently target enrolling at least 740 patients to achieve the required number of renal flares and the trial could take several years to complete. We expect that the actual costs of completing the current Phase 3 ASPEN study will exceed our current cash resources. If we expend all of the funds that we have raised and do not receive funding from a collaborative agreement with a corporate partner or obtain other financing, we would not have the financial resources to complete the current Phase 3 ASPEN study or to continue the development of Riquent, and we may not be able to continue to operate. We may need to sell stock or assets, enter into collaborative agreements, significantly reduce our operations, or merge with another entity to continue operations. Our business is highly cash-intensive and we will need a significant amount of additional cash to continue our operations. There can be no guarantee that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, whether through issuance of additional securities, entry into collaborative arrangements, or otherwise. If adequate funds are not available, we may halt the current Phase 3 ASPEN study, significantly reduce the size of our workforce, sell or license our technologies or obtain funds through other arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or potential products. We also may merge with another entity to continue our operations. Any one of these outcomes could have a negative impact on our ability to develop products or achieve profitability if our products are brought to market. If, and to the extent, we obtain additional funding through sales of securities, any previous investment in us will be diluted, and dilution can be particularly substantial when the price of our common stock is low. Moreover, capital markets have experienced a period of instability recently and this instability may make it harder for us to raise capital within the time periods needed or on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. In the current economic environment, our need for additional capital and limited capital resources may force us to accept financing terms that could be significantly more dilutive than if we were raising capital when the capital markets were more stable. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist primarily of government-asset-backed securities, obligations of government agencies and money market funds. As of December 31, 2007, our short-term investments included $28.0 million of AAA rated asset-backed securities (student loan auction rate securities) issued primarily by state governments. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we sold $18.0 million of these asset-backed auction rate securities at par value. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of student loan auction rate securities. As of March 6, 2008, there was insufficient demand at auction for three of our AAA rated U.S. government-backed student loan auction rate securities, representing approximately $6.0 million of the remaining $10.0 million we currently hold in asset-backed auction rate securities. As a result of the insufficient demand, these three securities are currently not liquid and unless a future auction (which occurs approximately every 28 days) for these investments is successful, we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the issuer or to maturity, which ranges between 20-30 years. 14 Table of Contents We may experience a similar situation with our other remaining asset-backed student loan auction rate security, which comes up for auction on March 24, 2008. In the event we need to access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal, until a future auction on these investments is successful, the securities are redeemed by the issuer or they mature. At this time, management has not obtained sufficient evidence to conclude that these investments are impaired or that they will not be settled in the short-term, although the market for these investments is presently uncertain. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed on terms that are acceptable, if at all. Our current lack of resources is exacerbated by our inability to liquidate holdings of certain student loan auction rate securities. The addition of this going concern statement from our independent registered public accounting firm may discourage some investors from purchasing our stock or providing alternative capital financing. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unless we raise additional funds, either through the sale of equity securities or one or more collaborative arrangements, we will need to halt the Phase 3 ASPEN study and significantly reduce our workforce and our operating expenses. If we do not take these actions, we will not have sufficient funds to continue operations. Even if we take these actions, they may be insufficient, particulary if our costs are higher than projected or unforeseen expenses arise. Halting our Phase 3 ASPEN study or significantly reducing our workforce or operating expenses will adversely affect our business and prospects. In order to complete our current Phase 3 ASPEN study, we will need to accrue a sufficient number of renal flares by enrolling a sufficient number of patients who meet the trial criteria. If we are unable to successfully complete the trial, our business will be adversely affected and it may be difficult or impossible for us to continue to operate. The current Phase 3 ASPEN study is an event-driven trial requiring us to accrue a specified number of renal flares to complete the study. We currently target enrolling at least 740 patients to achieve the required number of renal flares. We may need to enroll more patients in order to reach the required number of renal flares. We may have difficulty enrolling patients because, among other matters, there are specific limitations on the medications that a patient may be taking upon entry into the trial and intense competition for available lupus patients. If we are unable to accrue a sufficient number of renal flares or to timely enroll a sufficient number of patients, we will not be able to successfully complete the current Phase 3 ASPEN study. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for us to continue to operate. Results from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approvals to market Riquent or our other drug candidates in the United States or other countries on a timely basis, if at all. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. In order to sell any product that is under development, we must first receive regulatory approval. To obtain regulatory approval, we must conduct clinical trials and toxicology studies that demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe and effective. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may not agree that we have demonstrated that Riquent is safe and effective. If Riquent is ultimately not found to be safe and effective, we would be unable to obtain regulatory approval to manufacture, market and sell Riquent. Although we have received an approvable letter from the FDA, the analysis of the data from our previous Phase 3 trial of Riquent showed that the trial did not reach statistical significance with respect to its primary endpoint, time to renal flare, or with respect to its secondary endpoint, time to treatment with high-dose corticosteroids or cyclophosphamide. In a preliminary assessment of the MAA submitted in March 2006, the EMEA reviewers indicated that additional clinical data would be needed prior to potential approval. Based on our review of the EMEA assessment, we believe that the current Phase 3 ASPEN study should provide the necessary data; however, since the data would not be available within the timeframe that the EMEA regulations allow for review of the Riquent application we submitted, we withdrew the application. We plan to refile the MAA after the completion of the current Phase 3 ASPEN study, if it is successful. We can provide no assurances that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will ultimately approve Riquent or, if approved, what the indication for Riquent will be. 15 Table of Contents As designed, our current Phase 3 ASPEN study contains multiple dosing levels. Even if the Phase 3 ASPEN study is successful, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require additional studies to define dosing recommendations before we can obtain approval to market Riquent. Because substantially all of our resources are currently being devoted to Riquent, our inability to obtain any regulatory approval of Riquent as a result of the current Phase 3 ASPEN study would have a severe negative effect on our business, and, in the future, we may not have the financial resources to continue the development of Riquent or any other potential drug candidates. We are currently devoting nearly all of our resources to the development and approval of Riquent. Accordingly, our efforts with respect to other drug candidates have significantly diminished. Future development of our small molecules for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and acute and chronic inflammatory disorders depends on our ability to obtain third-party financing for this program through a joint venture, partnership or other collaborative arrangement. As a result, progress with respect to drug candidates other than Riquent, if any, will be significantly delayed and our success and ability to continue to operate depends on whether we obtain regulatory approval to market Riquent. Current and future clinical trials may be delayed or halted. Current and future clinical trials of Riquent, trials of drugs related to Riquent, or clinical trials of other drug candidates may be delayed or halted. For example, in 2005, for a period of time we limited patient enrollment in our Phase 3 ASPEN trial in an effort to reduce costs. In addition, our Phase 2/3 clinical trial of Riquent was terminated before planned patient enrollment was completed. Current and future trials may be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: • we do not have sufficient financial resources; • supplies of drug product are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; • patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect; • the products are not effective; • patients experience negative side effects or other safety concerns are raised during treatment; • the trials are not conducted in accordance with applicable clinical practices; or • there is political unrest at foreign clinical sites; or • there are natural disasters at any of our clinical sites. If any current or future trials are delayed or halted, we may incur significant additional expenses, and our potential approval of Riquent may be delayed, which could have a severe negative effect on our business. We may be required to design and conduct additional trials for Riquent. We may be required to design and conduct additional studies to further demonstrate the safety and efficacy of Riquent, either before or after a potential approval, which may result in significant expense and delay. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may require new or additional clinical trials because of inconclusive results from current or earlier clinical trials (including the previous Phase 2/3 and Phase 3 trials of Riquent), a possible failure to conduct clinical trials in complete adherence to FDA good clinical practice standards and similar standards of foreign regulatory authorities, the identification of new clinical trial endpoints, or the need for additional data regarding safety or efficacy. It is possible that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve Riquent or our other drug candidates for commercial sale in any jurisdiction, even if we believe future clinical results are positive. 16 Table of Contents We may experience shortages of Riquent for use in our clinical studies. We may experience shortages of Riquent for use in our clinical studies. We are implementing a commercial scale manufacturing process for Riquent, but we have manufactured only a limited number of lots of Riquent at this commercial scale. In addition, the drug supply needed for our current Phase 3 ASPEN study may require us to manufacture significant quantities of Riquent in a compressed time frame. If we are unable to manufacture Riquent in accordance with applicable FDA good manufacturing practices at this commercial scale, or if we incur production delays our ability to timely complete clinical trials of Riquent will be negatively affected. If we encounter delays or difficulties in establishing or maintaining relationships with manufacturing or distribution contractors, our ability to timely complete necessary clinical trials and potentially deliver commercial products may be negatively affected. We may enter into arrangements with contract manufacturing companies to expand our own production capacity in order to meet demand for our products or to attempt to improve manufacturing efficiency. If we choose to contract for manufacturing services, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators would have to approve the contract manufacturers prior to our use, and these contractors would be required to comply with strictly enforced manufacturing standards. We may also enter into agreements with contractors to prepare and distribute our drug candidates for use by patients in clinical trials or commercially. If we encounter delays or difficulties in establishing or maintaining relationships with contractors to produce, package or distribute our drug candidates, if they are unable to meet our needs, if they are not approved by the regulatory authorities, or if they fail to adhere to applicable manufacturing standards, our ability to timely complete necessary clinical trials and to introduce our products into the market would be negatively affected. Our limited manufacturing capabilities and experience could result in shortages of drugs for future sale, and our revenues and profit margin could be negatively affected. We have never operated a commercial manufacturing facility and we will be required to manufacture Riquent pursuant to applicable FDA good manufacturing practices. Our inexperience could result in manufacturing delays or interruptions and higher manufacturing costs. This could negatively affect our ability to supply the market on a timely and competitive basis. The sales of our products, if any, and our profit margins may also be negatively affected. In addition, substantial capital investment in the expansion and build-out of our manufacturing facilities and/or the engagement of third party contract manufacturers will be required to enable us to manufacture Riquent, if approved, in sufficient commercial quantities. We have limited manufacturing experience, and we may be unable to successfully transition to commercial production. Our suppliers may not be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of materials that we need to manufacture our products. We rely on outside suppliers to provide us with specialized chemicals and reagents that we use to manufacture our drugs. In order to manufacture Riquent and our other drug candidates in sufficient quantities for our clinical trials and possible commercialization, our suppliers will be required to provide us with an adequate supply of chemicals and reagents. Our ability to obtain these chemicals and reagents is subject to the following risks: • our suppliers may not be able to increase their own manufacturing capabilities in order to provide us with a sufficient amount of material for our use; 17 Table of Contents • some of our suppliers may be required to pass FDA inspections or validations or to obtain other regulatory approvals of their manufacturing facilities or processes, and they may be delayed or unable to do so; • the materials that our suppliers use to manufacture the chemicals and reagents that they provide us may be costly or in short supply; and • there are a limited number of suppliers that are able to provide us with the chemicals or reagents that we use to manufacture our drugs. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of chemicals or reagents, our ability to produce products for clinical studies and, therefore, to introduce products into the market on a timely and competitive basis, will be impeded. The subsequent sales of our products, if any, and our profit margins may also be negatively affected. An interruption in the operation of our sole manufacturing facility could disrupt our operations. We have only one drug manufacturing facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to manufacture drugs for our clinical trials or possible commercialization. Retaining our current personnel and recruiting additional personnel will be critical to our success. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our clinical development, manufacturing and management staff, the loss of whose services may delay the achievement of our research and development objectives. Retaining our current key personnel to perform clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory, and business development activities will be critical to our near term success. We expect that recruiting additional qualified personnel to conduct clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory, and marketing and sales activities will be required to successfully further develop Riquent and any additional drug candidates. Because competition for experienced clinical, manufacturing, regulatory, and marketing and sales personnel among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain these people. If we cannot attract and retain qualified people, our ability to conduct necessary clinical trials, manufacture drug, comply with regulatory requirements, enter into collaborative agreements and develop and sell potential products may be negatively affected because, for instance, the trials may not be conducted properly, or the manufacturing or sales of our products may be delayed. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our clinical, manufacturing, regulatory, business development, and marketing and sales strategies. All of our consultants and advisors have outside employment and may have commitments or consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their ability to contribute to our business. We will need additional funds to support our operations. Our operations to date have consumed substantial capital resources. Before we can obtain FDA or foreign regulatory approval for Riquent, we will need to successfully complete the current Phase 3 ASPEN study and possibly additional trials. Therefore, we expect to expend substantial amounts of capital resources for additional product development and clinical trials of Riquent. We may also devote substantial additional capital resources to establish commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities and to market and sell potential products. These expenses may be incurred prior to or after any regulatory approvals that we may receive. Even with the net proceeds of approximately $37.9 million from our common stock offering in April 2007, we will need additional funds to finance our future operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope and results of our clinical trials; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of drug to support clinical trials; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for Riquent; • the time and costs involved in applying for regulatory approvals; • continued scientific progress in our development programs; • the size and complexity of our development programs; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative research and development arrangements; • our need to establish commercial manufacturing capabilities; and • our ability to develop effective marketing and sales programs. We expect to incur substantial losses each year for at least the next several years as we continue our planned clinical trial, manufacturing, regulatory, and development activities. If we receive regulatory approval for Riquent, or any of our other drug candidates, our manufacturing, marketing and sales activities are likely to substantially increase our expenses and our need for additional working capital. In the future, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain additional funds and thus not have adequate resources to support continuation of our business activities. Our freedom to operate our business or profit fully from sales of our products may be limited if we enter into collaborative agreements. We may need to collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to gain access to their financial, research, drug development, manufacturing, or marketing and sales resources. However, we may not be able to negotiate arrangements with any collaborative partners on favorable terms, if at all. Any collaborative relationships that we enter into may include restrictions on our freedom to operate our business or may limit our revenues from potential products. If a collaborative arrangement is established, the collaborative partner may discontinue funding any particular program or may, either alone or with others, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative drug candidates for the diseases we are targeting. Competing products, developed by a collaborative partner or to which a collaborative partner has rights, may result in the collaborative partner withdrawing support as to all or a portion of our technology. Without collaborative arrangements, we must fund our own clinical development, manufacturing, and marketing and sales activities, which accelerates the depletion of our cash and requires us to develop our own manufacturing and marketing and sales capabilities. Therefore, if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements and if other sources of cash are not available, we will experience a severe adverse effect on our ability to develop products and, if developed and approved, to manufacture, market and sell them successfully. Any regulatory approvals that we may obtain for our product candidates may be limited and subsequent issues regarding safety or efficacy could cause us to remove products from the market. If the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities grant approval of Riquent or any of our other drug candidates, the approval may be limited to specific conditions or patient populations, or limited with respect to its distribution, including to specified facilities or physicians with special training or experience. The imposition of any of these restrictions or other restrictions on the marketing and use of Riquent could adversely affect any future sales of Riquent. Furthermore, even if a drug candidate is approved, it is possible that a subsequent issue regarding its safety or efficacy would require us to remove the drug from the market. 19 Table of Contents Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and review, including validation of our manufacturing facilities and processes. Following any regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. In addition, we, and any third-party manufacturers, will be required to adhere to regulations setting forth cGMPs. These regulations cover all aspects of the manufacturing, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to our product candidates. Furthermore, we, and any third-party manufacturers, will be subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. These inspections may result in compliance issues that would require the expenditure of significant financial or other resources to address. If we, or any third-party manufacturers that we may engage, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Although a successful pre-approval inspection was conducted by the FDA in July 2004, we have never operated a commercial manufacturing facility. If we are unable to maintain validated conditions at our manufacturing facilities or fail to successfully validate our manufacturing processes to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities, they will not approve Riquent for commercial use. The size of the market for our potential products is uncertain. We estimate that the number of people who suffer from lupus in the United States and Europe is potentially more than 1,000,000 and those with renal impairment, which Riquent is designed to treat, is approximately 300,000. However, there is limited and differing information available regarding the actual size of these patient populations. In addition, it is uncertain whether the results from previous or future clinical trials of Riquent will be observed in broader patient populations, and the number of patients who may benefit from Riquent may be significantly smaller than the estimated patient populations. Furthermore, management of patients with renal disease by specialists other than nephrologists and rheumatologists is likely to reduce our ability to access patients who may benefit from Riquent. Our drugs may not achieve market acceptance. Even if Riquent or our other drug candidates receive regulatory approval, patients and physicians may not readily or quickly accept our proposed methods of treatment. In order for Riquent or our other drug candidates to be commercially successful, we will need to increase the awareness and acceptance of our drug candidates among physicians, patients and the medical community. Riquent is designed to be administered weekly by intravenous injection. It is possible that providers and patients may resist an intravenously administered therapeutic. It is also possible that physician treatment practices may change and that the use of other drugs, either newly approved or currently on the market for other conditions, may become widely utilized by clinicians for the treatment of patients with lupus and reduce the potential use of Riquent in this patient population. In addition, if we are unable to manufacture drugs at an acceptable cost, physicians may not readily prescribe drugs that we may manufacture due to cost-benefit considerations when compared to other methods of treatment. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance for approved products, our revenues and potential for profitability will be negatively affected. We lack experience in marketing products for commercial sale. In order to commercialize any drug candidate approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we must either develop marketing and sales programs or enter into marketing arrangements with others. If we cannot do either of these successfully, we will not generate meaningful sales of any products that may be approved. If we develop our own marketing and sales capabilities, we will be required to employ a sales force, 20 Table of Contents establish and staff a customer service department, and create or identify distribution channels for our drugs. We will compete with other companies that have experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations. In addition, if we establish our own sales and distribution capabilities, we will incur material expenses and may experience delays or have difficulty in gaining market acceptance for our drug candidates. We currently have no marketing arrangements with others. There can be no guarantee that, if we desire to, we will be able to enter into any marketing agreements on favorable terms, if at all, or that any such agreements will result in payments to us. If we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenues that we may receive will be dependent on the efforts of others. There can be no guarantee that these efforts will be successful. We may not earn as much revenue as we hope due to possible changes in healthcare reimbursement policies. The continuing efforts of government and healthcare insurance companies to reduce the costs of healthcare may reduce the amount of revenue that we can generate from sales of future products, if any. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription drugs are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on drug manufacturers to reduce prices. Price control initiatives could reduce the revenue that we receive for any products we may develop and sell in the future. Moreover, even if Riquent were approved we cannot predict what the dosage requirements or degree of efficacy would be and therefore whether or not healthcare reimbursement policies would enable a sales price that allows us to be profitable. We have a history of losses and may not become profitable. We have incurred operating losses each year since our inception in 1989 and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $352.8 million as of December 31, 2007. We expect to incur substantial losses each year for at least the next several years as we conduct clinical trials of our drug candidates, seek regulatory approval and continue our clinical development, manufacturing, and regulatory activities. In addition, assuming we ultimately receive approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for Riquent or our other drug candidates, we will be required to establish commercial manufacturing capabilities and marketing and sales programs which may result in substantial additional losses. To achieve profitability we must, among other matters, complete the development of our products, obtain all necessary regulatory approvals and establish commercial manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. The amount of losses and the time required by us to reach sustained profitability are highly uncertain and we may never achieve profitability. We do not expect to generate revenues from the sale of Riquent, if approved, or our other products, if any, in the near term, and we may never generate product revenues. Our success in developing and marketing our drug candidates depends significantly on our ability to obtain patent protection for Riquent and any other developed products. In addition, we will need to successfully preserve our trade secrets and operate without infringing on the rights of others. We depend on patents and other unpatented intellectual property to prevent others from improperly benefiting from products or technologies that we may have developed. We currently own 135 issued patents and have 40 pending patent applications in the United States and in foreign countries. These patents and patent applications cover various technologies and drug candidates, including Riquent. There can be no assurance, however, that any additional patents will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will be sufficient to protect us or our technology, or that any current or future issued patent will be held valid if subsequently challenged. We are currently involved in an opposition proceeding in Europe challenging the validity of certain claims in our European patent relating to our antibody-mediated thrombosis drug technology. There is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office that may delay the review and issuance of any patents. The patent position of biotechnology firms like ours is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions, and no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims covered in biotechnology patents or the protection afforded by these patents. We intend to continue to file patent applications as believed appropriate for patents covering both our products and processes. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from any of these applications, or that the scope of any issued patents will protect our technology. 21 Table of Contents We do not necessarily know if others, including competitors, have patents or patent applications pending that relate to compounds or processes that overlap or compete with our intellectual property or which may affect our freedom to operate. We are aware of certain families of patents and patent applications that contain claims covering subject matter that may affect our ability to develop, manufacture and sell our products in the future. We have conducted investigations into these patent families to determine what impact, if any, the patent families could have on our continued development, manufacture and, if approved by the FDA, sale of our drug candidates, including Riquent. Based on our investigations to date, we currently do not believe that these patent families are likely to impede the advancement of our drug candidates, including Riquent. However, there can be no assurance that upon our further investigation, these patent families or other patents will not ultimately be found to impact the advancement of our drug candidates, including Riquent. If the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any foreign counterpart issues or has issued patents containing competitive or conflicting claims, and if these claims are valid, the protection provided by our existing patents or any future patents that may be issued could be significantly reduced, and our ability to prevent competitors from developing products or technologies identical or similar to ours could be negatively affected. In addition, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to obtain licenses to these patents on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our failure to obtain a license to a technology or process that may be required to develop or commercialize one or more of our drug candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may have to incur significant expenses and management time in defending or enforcing our patents. We also rely on unpatented intellectual property such as trade secrets and improvements, know-how, and continuing technological innovation. While we seek to protect these rights, it is possible that: • others, including competitors, will develop inventions relevant to our business; • our confidentiality agreements will be breached, and we may not have, or be successful in obtaining, adequate remedies for such a breach; or • our trade secrets will otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We could incur substantial costs and devote substantial management time in defending suits that others might bring against us for infringement of intellectual property rights or in prosecuting suits that we might bring against others to protect our intellectual property rights. The technology underlying our products is uncertain and unproven. All of our product development efforts are based on unproven technologies and therapeutic approaches that have not been widely tested or used. To date, no pharmaceutical products that use our technology have been commercialized. The FDA has not determined that we have proven Riquent to be safe and effective in humans, and the technology on which it is based has been used only in our pre-clinical tests and clinical trials. Clinical trials of Riquent may be viewed as a test of our entire approach to developing therapies for antibody-mediated diseases. If Riquent does not work as intended, or if the data from our clinical trials indicates that Riquent is not safe and effective, the applicability of our technology for successfully treating antibody-mediated diseases will be highly uncertain. As a result, there is a significant risk that our therapeutic approaches will not prove to be successful, and there can be no guarantee that our drug discovery technologies will result in any commercially successful products. 22 Table of Contents Because a number of companies compete with us, many of which have greater resources than we do, and because we face rapid changes in technology in our industry, we cannot be certain that our products will be accepted in the marketplace or capture market share. Competition from domestic and foreign biotechnology companies, large pharmaceutical companies and other institutions is intense and is expected to increase. A number of companies and institutions are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals in our targeted areas. Many of these companies are very large, and have financial, technical, sales and distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. The greater resources of these competitors could enable them to develop competing products more quickly than we are able to, and to market any competing product more quickly or effectively so as to make it extremely difficult for us to develop a share of the market for our products. These competitors also include companies that are conducting clinical trials and pre-clinical studies for the treatment of lupus. Our competitors may develop or obtain regulatory approval for products more rapidly than we do. If the FDA were to approve a drug that is significantly similar in structure to Riquent for the same indication that Riquent is designed to treat, and such drug received marketing exclusivity under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may be prevented from approving Riquent. Also, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid changes in technology. Our competitors may develop and market technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than those we are developing, or that would render our technology and proposed products obsolete or noncompetitive. We may not be able to take advantage of the orphan drug designation for Riquent. In September 2000, the FDA granted us orphan drug designation for Riquent for the treatment of lupus nephritis. The Orphan Drug Act potentially enables us to obtain research funding and tax credits for certain research expenses. In addition, the Orphan Drug Act allows for seven years of exclusive marketing rights to a specific drug for a specific orphan indication. Exclusivity is conferred upon receipt of marketing approval from the FDA to the first sponsor who obtains such approval for a designated drug. The marketing exclusivity prevents FDA approval during the seven-year period of the same drug, as defined in the FDA regulations, from another company for the same orphan indication. Whether we will be able to take advantage of some of the benefits afforded by the orphan drug designation will ultimately be determined by the FDA only after further review of our NDA. The use of Riquent or other potential products in clinical trials, as well as the sale of any approved products, may expose us to lawsuits resulting from the use of these products. The use and possible sale of Riquent or other potential products may expose us to legal liability and negative publicity if we are subject to claims that our products harmed people. These claims might be made directly by patients, pharmaceutical companies, or others. We currently maintain $10.0 million of product liability insurance for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials. However, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. In addition, in the event of any commercialization of any of our products, we will likely need to obtain additional insurance, which will increase our insurance expenses. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to maintain insurance or that insurance can be acquired at a reasonable cost, in sufficient amounts, or with broad enough coverage to protect us against possible losses. Furthermore, it is possible that our financial resources would be insufficient to satisfy potential product liability or other claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could negatively impact our business and financial condition. We face environmental liabilities related to certain hazardous materials used in our operations. Due to the nature of our manufacturing processes, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations if and when our manufacturing increases to commercial volumes. Current or future environmental laws may significantly affect our operations because, for instance, our production process may be required to be altered, thereby increasing our production costs. In our research and 23 Table of Contents manufacturing activities, we use radioactive and other materials that could be hazardous to human health, safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Although we maintain general liability insurance, we do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities. II. RISK FACTORS RELATED SPECIFICALLY TO OUR STOCK. The ownership of our common stock is concentrated. As of February 29, 2008, our three largest stockholders beneficially owned approximately 47% of our currently outstanding shares of common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. For example, the sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, two of these stockholders have the ability, either alone or jointly, to appoint four members of our board of directors. Accordingly, these two stockholders, either directly or indirectly, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Our common stock price is volatile and may decline even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities: • limited financial resources; • our clinical trial results; • future sales of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • actions or decisions by the FDA and other comparable agencies; • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or others; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety of drugs discovered or developed by us or others; • developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; • comments by securities analysts and general market conditions; and • government regulation, including any legislation that may impact the price of any commercial products that we may seek to sell. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Future sales of our stock by our stockholders could negatively affect the market price of our stock. Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could result in a drop in the market price of our securities. As of February 29, 2008, there were: • Approximately 39,619,996 shares of common stock that have been issued in registered offerings or were otherwise freely tradable in the public markets. • Approximately 10,761 shares of common stock eligible for resale in the public market pursuant to SEC Rule 144. • 4,399,992 shares of common stock underlying warrants which have been registered for resale under a Registration Statement on Form S-3. • 5,417,904 shares of common stock that may be issued on the exercise of outstanding stock options granted under our various stock option plans at a weighted average exercise price of $7.83 per share. • Approximately 417,949 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance pursuant to awards granted under our equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans, which shares are covered by effective registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). • Pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 filed on December 10, 2002, we registered an aggregate amount of $125,000,000 of our common stock for issuance from time to time. As of February 29, 2008, there was $13,917,500 of our common stock available for future issuance under this registration statement, which expires on December 1, 2008. • Pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 filed on August 20, 2007, we registered an aggregate amount of $77,000,000 of our common stock for issuance from time to time. As of February 29, 2008, no shares of common stock had been issued under this registration statement, which expires on August 23, 2010. We cannot estimate the number of shares of common stock that may actually be resold in the public market because this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the individual circumstances of the sellers and other factors. We also have a number of stockholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If these stockholders sell significant portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly. Our stock may be removed from listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and may not qualify for listing on any stock exchange, in which case it may be difficult to maintain a market in our stock. In 2005, we received a notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that our stock price fell below the required minimum bid price. We have since regained compliance with the minimum bid price rule, but we are required to maintain compliance in order to maintain our listing. In addition to the minimum bid price rule, the Nasdaq Global Market has several other continued listing requirements. Failure to maintain compliance with any Nasdaq listing requirement could cause our stock to be removed from listing on Nasdaq. If this were to happen, we may not be able to secure listing on other exchanges or quotation systems. If our stock is no longer traded on an exchange or quotation system, it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell the shares that they own. This would have a negative effect on the price and liquidity of our stock. 25 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year beginning in 2004 and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in all future annual reports beginning with the annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to report on our internal control over financial reporting. We evaluated our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 in order to comply with Section 404 and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Anti-takeover devices may prevent changes in our board of directors and management. We have in place several anti-takeover devices, including a stockholder rights plan, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our management or deterring third parties from seeking to acquire significant positions in our common stock. For example, one anti-takeover device provides for a board of directors that is separated into three classes, with their terms in office staggered over three year periods. This has the effect of delaying a change in control of our board of directors without the cooperation of the incumbent board. In addition, our bylaws require stockholders to give us written notice of any proposal or director nomination within a specified period of time prior to the annual stockholder meeting, establish certain qualifications for a person to be elected or appointed to the board of directors during the pendency of certain business combination transactions, and do not allow stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. We may also issue shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval and upon terms that our board of directors may determine in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock, and the holders of such preferred stock could have voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 