Item 1A. Risk Factors: Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions including the following: We have been and may continue to be adversely affected by national financial markets and economic conditions, as well as local conditions. Our business and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions in the United States, including factors such as the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, investor confidence and the strength of the U.S. economy. The deterioration of any of these conditions can adversely affect our securities and loan portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, our capital levels, liquidity and our results of operations. In addition, we are affected by the economic conditions within our New Jersey and Pennsylvania trade areas. Though there have been signs of improvement, economic growth in these areas has been slow to recover. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in the six counties in the New Jersey market and one county in Pennsylvania in which we have branches, so any decline in the economy of New Jersey or eastern Pennsylvania could have an adverse impact on us. Our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of collateral securing these loans are impacted by economic conditions. Our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Although economic conditions in our primary market have fared better than other areas of the United States, we cannot assure you that these conditions will continue to prevail. We cannot assure you that positive trends or developments discussed in this annual report will continue or that negative trends or developments will not have a significant adverse effect on us. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 97 percent of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. Continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. The declines in home prices in the New Jersey and Pennsylvania markets we serve also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in our loan portfolios. This combined with a deepened economic recession and continued elevated unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings could be adversely affected. There is a risk that the SBA will not honor their guarantee. The Company has historically been a participant in various SBA lending programs which guarantee up to 90% of the principal on the underlying loan. There is a risk that the SBA will not honor their guarantee if a loan is not underwritten and administered to SBA guidelines. The Company follows the underwriting guidelines of the SBA, however our ability to manage this will depend on our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees who have knowledge of the SBA program. 12 There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make. The risk of nonpayment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such nonpayment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to the Company, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s allowance for loan losses was $14.8 million, or 2.51 percent of our total loan portfolio and 84.49 percent of our nonperforming loans. The Company’s marketing focus on small to medium size businesses may result in the assumption by the Company of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers’ available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. We have a significant level of nonperforming assets, and this has, and will continue, to affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2012, our total nonperforming assets equaled $19.3 million or 3.28 percent of total loans and OREO. This is a significant level of nonperforming assets compared to our peer group institutions. Our level of nonperforming assets reflects the general economic slowdown in our marketplace and its effect on our borrowers, and our focus on SBA lending, which may entail greater credit risk than other types of lending. This deterioration in credit quality has negatively impacted our results of operations, through additional provisions for loan losses and reduced interest income, and will continue to impact our performance until these assets are resolved. In addition, future increases in our nonperforming assets will further negatively affect our results of operations. We can give you no assurance that our nonperforming assets will not increase further. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management; and, periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the Audit Committee. A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and, as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. We are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Net interest income, the difference between interest earned on our interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, represents a significant portion of our earnings. Both increases and decreases in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. Interest rates are subject to factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Unity receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Unity’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Unity’s financial assets and liabilities, including the held to maturity and available for sale securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of Unity’s interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). 13 The banking business is subject to significant government regulations. We are subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and may require substantial modifications to our operations or may cause us to incur substantial additional compliance costs. These laws and regulations are designed to protect depositors and the public, but not our shareholders. In addition, future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the commercial banking industry and our operations. Such governing laws can be anticipated to continue to be the subject of future modification. Our management cannot predict what effect any such future modifications will have on our operations. In addition, the primary focus of Federal and state banking regulation is the protection of depositors and not the shareholders of the regulated institutions. For example, the recently adopted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has resulted in substantial new compliance costs, and may restrict certain sources of revenue. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2011. Generally, the Act is effective the day after it was signed into law, but different effective dates apply to specific sections of the law, many of which will not become effective until various Federal regulatory agencies have promulgated rules implementing the statutory provisions. Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: · Directs the Federal Reserve to issue rules to limit debit-card interchange fees; · Provides for an increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, increases in the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35% and changes the basis for determining FDIC premiums from deposits to assets; · Permanently increases the deposit insurance coverage to $250 thousand and allows depository institutions to pay interest on checking accounts; established a new independent consumer financial protection bureau within the Federal Reserve, empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws. However, smaller financial institutions, like the Bank, are subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws; · Provides for new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance; · Changes standards for Federal preemption of state laws related to federally chartered institutions and their subsidiaries; · Provides mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and · Creates a financial stability oversight council that will recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. In addition, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted Basel III in September 2010, which constitutes a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations in the United States and around the world. Basel III is currently the subject of notices of proposed rulemakings released in June of 2012 by the respective U.S. federal banking agencies. The comment period for these notices of proposed rulemakings ended on October 22, 2012. Basel III is intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013 and to be fully-phased in on a global basis on January 1, 2019. Basel III would require capital to be held in the form of tangible common equity, generally increase the required capital ratios, phase out certain kinds of intangibles treated as capital and certain types of instruments and change the risk weightings of assets used to determine required capital ratios. However, on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. They did not indicate the likely new effective date. 14 These provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, may impact the profitability of our business activities and may change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, many of which are to be phased-in over the next several months and years, and assessing the probable impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of these changes on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time. We are subject to changes in accounting policies or accounting standards. Understanding Unity’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding our financial results. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of assets or liabilities and financial results. Unity has identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations and impairments, goodwill and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of Unity’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and Unity’s outside auditors, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Such changes are expected to continue, and may accelerate based on the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board commitments to achieving convergence between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond Unity’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how Unity reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, Unity could be required to apply a new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently (also retroactively) which may result in Unity restating prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations. Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $89.5 million and $21.5 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges in earnings related to credit losses on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Additionally, (a) if we intend to sell a security or (b) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the statement of income equal to the full amount of the decline in fair value below amortized cost. Factors, including lack of liquidity, absence of reliable pricing information, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio and may result in other-than-temporary impairment on our investment securities in future periods. Liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that Unity will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. 15 Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to persistent weakness, or downturn, in the economy or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not necessarily specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. We are in competition with many other banks, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. The banking industry within the State of New Jersey is highly competitive. The Company’s principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal upon our judgment that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve small businesses in our principal market area and upon our ability to compete favorably for such customers. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as “hometown” institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. Future offerings of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the future, we may increase our capital resources, raise capital to redeem our preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the prevailing regulatory required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock or preferred stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: · telecommunications; · data processing; · automation; · Internet-based banking; · Tele-banking; and · debit cards/smart cards Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies, we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. 16 The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as us) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We maintain a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure or internal controls, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor’s strategic focus. In addition we maintain cyber liability insurance to mitigate against any loss incurred. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees and manage our expenses. We expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and, correspondingly, in the number of our employees and customers. We may not be able to successfully manage our business as a result of the strain on our management and operations that may result from this growth. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our ability to attract and retain senior management may be adversely affected by the restrictions imposed upon us under the CPP, as revised by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Hurricanes and other weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In addition, these weather events may result in a decline in value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. The dividend rate on our outstanding preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program will increase to 9% from 5% if it is not redeemed by December 5, 2013, substantially increasing our dividend cost and reducing earnings available to common shareholders. Under the terms of the preferred stock we issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program, the dividend rate will increase from 5% to 9% after five (5) years. This will occur on December 5, 2013, unless we redeem the outstanding preferred shares prior to December 5, 2013. In order to redeem these shares, we must, among other requirements, obtain the prior approval of our Federal regulators and of the U.S. Treasury. We can provide you no assurance that we will obtain the required approvals, or obtain them prior to December 5, 2013. We currently have $20.1 million in preferred stock outstanding and held by the Treasury. The increase in dividend rate would result in our dividend costs increasing by approximately $826 thousand per year, or 80 percent. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 