Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain Factors That May Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations While our management's long-term expectations are optimistic, we face risks or uncertainties that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. The following conditions, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Decreases in equity trading activity by active fund managers and declining securities prices could harm our business and profitability. Declines in the trading activity of active fund managers would generally result in lower revenues from our trading solutions, which generate the majority of our revenues globally. In addition, securities' price declines would adversely affect our non-North American trading commissions, which are based on the value of transactions. The demand for our trading solutions is directly affected by factors such as economic, regulatory and political conditions that may lead to decreased trading activity and prices in the securities markets in the U.S. and in all of the foreign markets we serve. Over the past several years, global trading activity has declined significantly and may continue to do so. Increased risk aversion brought about by the impact of the financial crisis of 2008, ongoing concerns over sovereign debt levels and lower confidence in the functioning of financial markets has resulted in a significant flow of funds out of actively-managed equity funds, thereby curtailing their trading activity, which has weighed heavily on our buy-side trading volumes and the use of our higher value services. While there is a historical correlation between recovering share prices and the flow of money back into equity funds, there is uncertainty as to when a real, sustainable recovery in institutional equity activity will materialize, as well as the extent to which it will recover. Decreases in our commission rates and other transactional revenues could adversely affect our operating results. Commission rates on institutional trading activity have declined historically and we anticipate a continuation of the competitive pricing environment for the foreseeable future. In addition, reduced activity from our active fund manager clients has resulted in a shift in the mix of our business to include an increased portion from higher-turnover lower-rate clients, particularly sell-side firms. A further decrease in commission rates or revenue capture from further mix shifts or from rate reductions within client segments could materially reduce our margins and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our fixed costs may result in reduced profitability or losses. We incur significant operating and capital expenditures to support our business that do not vary directly, at least in the short term, with fluctuations in executed transaction volumes or revenues. In addition, changes in market practices have required us, and may require us in the future, to invest in 9 Table of Contents additional infrastructure to increase capacity levels without a corresponding increase in revenues. To ensure that we have the capacity to process projected increases in trade orders and executed transaction volumes, we have historically made substantial infrastructure investments in advance of such projected increases, including during periods of low revenues. We have also made substantial investments in our research products to attract additional trade flows from our buy-side clients. In the event of further reductions in trade executions and/or revenues, we may not be able to reduce such expenses quickly and, as a result, we could experience reduced profitability or losses. If the growth in executed volumes does not occur or we are not able to successfully implement and monetize our investments, including by failing to accurately forecast the demand for new products and by failing to effectively deploy new products and decommission legacy products, the expenses related to such investments could cause reduced profitability or losses. The price of our common stock may be volatile, which may impact our ability to attract and retain clients and limit the amount of strategic investments we can make. The periodic reporting of earnings and associated disclosures in this challenging environment for our business may result in significant fluctuations in the price of our stock and limit the extent to which our clients want to rely on us for core trading infrastructure and services. In addition, our ability to grow the Company through acquisitions and strategic initiatives may be negatively impacted by the dilutive effect of a low stock price and the need to preserve short-term profitability levels that are acceptable to stockholders. A failure in the design, operation or configuration of our technology could adversely affect our profitability and reputation. A technological failure or error of one or more of our products or systems, including but not limited to POSIT, our algorithms, smart routers, and order and execution management systems, could result in lost revenues and/or significant market losses. We operate complex trading systems, algorithms and analytical products that may fail to correctly model interacting or conflicting trading objectives, unusual market conditions, available trading venues and other factors, which may cause unintended results. Similarly, the operation and configuration of our systems can be quite complex and departure from standard procedures can result in adverse trading outcomes. Such problems could cause us to incur trading losses, lose clients or experience other reputational harm resulting in lost revenues and profits. Our quality assurance testing cannot test for all potential scenarios or ensure that the technology will function as designed and intended in all cases. If we fail to keep up with rapid changes in technology and continue to seek to provide leading products and services to our customers, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. The institutional brokerage industry is subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Our customers' demands become greater and more sophisticated as the dissemination of products and information to customers increases. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies, innovate in a timely and cost-effective manner and adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, we may be unable to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do to fund such technological advances. Moreover, the development of technology-based services is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Budgetary constraints on funding new product initiatives in the current environment, significant delays in new product releases, failure to meet key deadlines or significant problems in creating new products could negatively impact our revenues and profits. 10 Table of Contents Insufficient system capacity, system operating failures, disasters or security breaches could materially harm our reputation, financial position and profitability. Our business relies heavily on the computer and communications systems supporting our operations, which must monitor, process and support a large volume of transactions across numerous execution venues in many countries and multiple currencies. As our business expands, we will need to expand our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions across a larger client base and more geographical locations. In addition, certain changes in market practices may require us to invest in infrastructure to increase capacity levels. Unexpectedly high volumes or times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly, decrease output or even fail for periods of time, as could general power or telecommunications failures, natural disasters or other business disruptions. The presence of computer viruses can also cause failure within our systems. If any of our systems do not operate properly, are disabled, breached or attacked by hackers or other disruptive problems, we could incur financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. System failure, degradation, breach or attack could adversely affect our ability to effectuate transactions and lead our customers to file formal complaints with industry regulatory organizations, initiate regulatory inquiries or proceedings, file lawsuits against us, trade less frequently through us or cease doing business with us. Our corporate headquarters and largest concentration of employees and technology is in the New York metropolitan area. Our other offices are also located in major cities around the globe. If a business system disruption were to occur, especially in New York, for any reason including widespread health emergencies, natural disasters or terrorist activities, and we were unable to execute our disaster recovery plan, it could have a material effect on our business. Moreover, we have varying levels of disaster recovery plan coverage among our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our business relies on the secure storage, processing and transmission of data, including our clients' confidential data, in our internal systems and through our vendor networks and communications infrastructure. Third parties who are able to breach or disrupt our, or our vendors', security systems may be able to cause system damage or failures or perform unauthorized trading that could result in significant losses. There is no guarantee that our systems can prevent all unauthorized access or that our third party vendors will be able to secure their networks and systems. If our or one of our vendors' security is breached and unauthorized access is obtained to the confidential information of our clients, it could cause us reputational harm and our clients may then reduce or cease their use of our services, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Any system, operational or security failure or breach could result in regulatory or legal claims. We could incur significant costs in defending such regulatory or legal claims, even those without merit. Moreover, such failures could result in the need to remediate issues and repair or expand our networks and systems. Any obligation to expend significant resources to defend claims or repair and expand infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on certain third party vendors for key services. We depend on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading systems, computers, market and research data, data centers, FIX connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. We cannot be certain that any of these providers will be willing or able to continue to provide these services in an efficient and cost-effective manner or to meet our evolving needs. Moreover, we are dependent on our communications network providers for interconnectivity with our clients, markets and clearing agents to service our customers and operate effectively. If our vendors fail to meet their obligations, provide poor, inaccurate or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of these services, we may fail, in turn, 11 Table of Contents to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers and our business, financial condition and our operating results could be materially harmed. Our securities and clearing business exposes us to material liquidity risk. We self-clear equity transactions in the U.S., Hong Kong and Australia. In those markets, we may be required to provide considerable additional capital to regulatory agencies or increase margin deposits with clearing and settlement organizations, such as the National Securities Clearing Corporation or Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation in the U.S., especially during periods of high market volatility. In addition, regulatory agencies may require these clearing and settlement organizations to increase the level of margin deposit requirements. We rely on our excess cash and certain established credit facilities to meet those demands. While we have historically met requests for additional margin deposits, there is no guarantee that our excess cash and our established credit facilities will be sufficient for future needs, particularly if there is an increase in requirements. There is also no guarantee that these established credit facilities will be extended beyond their expiration. In addition, each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries worldwide is subject to regulatory capital requirements promulgated by the applicable regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. The failure by any of these subsidiaries to maintain its required regulatory capital may lead to suspension or revocation of its broker-dealer registration and its suspension or expulsion by its regulatory body. Historically, all regulatory capital needs of our broker-dealers have been provided by cash from operations. However, if cash from operations, together with existing financing facilities are not sufficient, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. Our business exposes us to credit risk that could affect our operating results and profitability. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties that owe us money, securities or other obligations, including our customers and trading counterparties. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons, and we could be held responsible for such defaults. In addition, client trading errors which they are unable to cover may cause us to incur financial losses. Volatile securities markets, credit markets and regulatory changes may increase our exposure to our customers' credit profiles, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. While our broker-dealer subsidiaries that are not self-clearing have clearing agreements with their clearing brokers who review the credit risk of trading counterparties, we have no assurances that those reviews or our own are adequate to provide sufficient protection from this risk. We may incur material losses on foreign exchange transactions entered into on behalf of clients and be exposed to material liquidity risk due to counterparty defaults or errors. We enable clients to settle cross-border equity transactions in their local currency through the use of foreign exchange contracts. These arrangements typically involve the delivery of securities or cash to a counterparty that is not processed through a central clearing facility in exchange for a simultaneous receipt of cash or securities. We may operate as either a principal or agent in these transactions. As a result, a default by one of our counterparties prior to the settlement of their obligation could materially impact our liquidity and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to operational risk. Employee and technological errors in executing, recording or reporting foreign exchange transactions may result in material losses due to the large size of such transactions and the underlying market risk in correcting such errors. 12 Table of Contents As a clearing member firm in certain jurisdictions we are subject to significant default risk. We are required to finance our clients' unsettled positions from time to time and we could be held responsible for the defaults of our clients. Default by our clients may also give rise to our incurring penalties imposed by execution venues, regulatory authorities and settlement systems. Although we regularly review our credit exposure, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that may be difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions that could in turn adversely affect us. Our equity trading operations in jurisdictions other than the U.S., Hong Kong and Australia are dependent on their clearing agents and any failures by such clearing agents could materially impact our business and operating results. Certain of our international operations are dependent on agents for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions. If our agents fail to properly facilitate the clearance and settlement of our customer trades, we could be subject to financial, legal and regulatory risks and costs that may impact our business and operating results. In addition, it could cause our clients to reduce or cease their trading with us, which would adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Moreover, certain of our agreements with clearing agents may be terminated upon short notice. There is no guarantee that we could obtain alternative services in a timely manner and any interruption of the normal course of our trading and clearing operations could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. We incur limited principal trading risk. A limited portion of our revenues is derived from principal trading in our Canadian Operations, including arbitrage trading and the net spread on foreign exchange contracts executed to facilitate equity trades by clients in different currencies. As a result of this trading, we may incur losses relating to the purchase or sale of securities for our own account. Although we attempt to close out all of our positions by the end of the day, we bear the risk of market fluctuations and we may incur losses due to changes in the prices of such securities. Any principal gains or losses resulting from these positions could have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our revenues and profits. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, technological, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. Our policies, procedures and practices used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks may fail to be effective. As a result, we face the risk of losses, including, for example, losses resulting from trading errors, customer defaults, fraud and money-laundering. Our risk management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. As such, we could lose investor confidence 13 Table of Contents in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The business in which we operate is extremely competitive worldwide. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, which, among other things, enable them to compete with the services we provide on the basis of price, including lowering prices for certain of our key services to gain business in their higher margin areas, and a willingness to commit their firms' capital to service their clients' trading needs on a principal, rather than on an agency basis. In addition, many of our competitors bundle multiple services as part of their equity trading offering. To the extent we seek to unbundle any of our products or services, we may lose clients which would also result in a loss of revenues and profits. Many of them offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition, and have larger customer bases than we do. Some of our competitors have long-standing, well-established relationships with their clients, and also hold dominant positions in their trading markets. Moreover, new entrants may enter the market with alternative methods of providing trade execution and related services, and existing competitors often launch new initiatives. Many of our competitors have undertaken measures to link various electronic trading systems and platforms in an effort to attract order flow to off-exchange venues and increase internal executions. Although we believe that our products and services have established certain competitive advantages, our ability to maintain these advantages will require continued enhancements to our products, investment in the development of our services, additional marketing activities and enhanced customer support services. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make this investment, that our competitors will not devote significantly more resources to competing services or that we will otherwise be successful in maintaining our market position. If competitors offer superior services, our market share would be affected and this would adversely impact our business and results of operations. We face certain challenges and risks to our international business that may adversely affect our strategy. Global client coverage is a key component of our business plan. We have invested significant resources in our foreign operations and the globalization of our products and services. However, there are certain risks inherent in the operation of our business outside of the U.S., including but not limited to, additional regulatory capital requirements, less developed technology and infrastructure and higher costs for infrastructure. These risks may limit our ability to provide services to clients in certain markets. There also may be difficult processes for obtaining regulatory approvals. This could result in delays in our global business plans, difficulties in staffing foreign operations and adapting our products to foreign markets, practices and languages, exchange rate risks and the need to meet foreign regulatory requirements. Each of these could force us to alter our operational plans and this may adversely impact our strategy. We incur risks related to our international business due to currency exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our financial results and financial position. A significant amount of our business is conducted in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar subjects us to exchange rate fluctuations. These fluctuations can materially impact our financial results. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain major customers and a decline in their use of our services could materially impact our revenues. Our customers may discontinue their use of our trading services at any time. The loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The chart below sets forth our dependence on our three largest clients individually, as well as on our ten largest clients in the aggregate, expressed as a percentage of total revenues: % of Total Consolidated Revenue 2012 2011 2010 Largest customer 2.4 % 2.9 % 2.8 % Second largest customer 2.1 % 2.0 % 2.0 % Third largest customer 1.9 % 1.7 % 1.7 % Ten largest customers 14.9 % 15.4 % 15.8 % The securities markets and the brokerage industry in which we operate globally are subject to extensive, evolving regulation that could materially impact our business. We currently operate POSIT in the U.S. under Regulation ATS, our European operations are subject to MiFID and we must comply with the requirements of the U.S. PATRIOT Act and its foreign equivalents for monitoring our customers and suspicious transactions. Moreover, most aspects of our broker-dealer operations are highly regulated, such as sales and reporting practices, operational compliance, capital requirements and licensure of employees. Accordingly, we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business, such as the SEC and FINRA in the U.S. and their equivalents in other countries. As we expand our business, we may be exposed to increased and different types of regulatory requirements and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. In the future, we may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which may adversely affect our business. Also, regulatory changes that impact how our customers conduct their business may impact our business and results of operations. The current U.S. administration and other members of the U.S. federal government and other governments outside of the United States have indicated that they are considering new regulatory requirements for the financial services industry. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes would affect our business. In July 2011, the SEC approved Securities Exchange Act Rule 13h-1 ("Large Trader Rule"), which partially went into effect on November 30, 2012 and is scheduled for full implementation on May 1, 2013. The Large Trader Rule imposes new filing requirements on market participants that conduct substantial trading activity in exchange-listed securities, and new record keeping, reporting, and monitoring requirements on broker-dealers. Furthermore, in June 2012, the SEC approved the Plan to Address Extraordinary Market Volatility (Limit UpLimit Down Plan) and changes to the Market Wide Circuit Breakers that were proposed by national securities exchanges and FINRA in an effort to reduce volatility in the U.S. equity markets following the May 6, 2010 Flash Crash. Moreover, in July 2012, the SEC adopted the Consolidated Audit Trail rule that it proposed on May 26, 2010, which requires SROs to establish an order trail reporting system that would enable regulators to track, within 24 hours of the trade date, information related to trading orders received and executed across the securities markets. In addition, new regulatory obligations have been proposed and adopted pertaining to markets outside of the United States which may have a material impact upon our business model. In Europe, these include proposed changes to MiFID (MiFID II) and financial transaction taxes that were imposed in 2012 by the French and Italian governments, and another equivalent tax that is being 15 Table of Contents proposed at the European Union level. With regard to Canada, in 2012, the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada and the Canadian Securities Administrator's adopted new regulations that require certain minimum price improvement in dark liquidity pools. Similarly, in Australia, new regulations that are scheduled to take effect in May 2013 will require dark liquidity pools to offer meaningful price improvement over displayed market prices. Accordingly, Australian dark pool operators will be required to provide executions at the midpoint of the current NBBO for un-displayed orders. Compliance with certain of these adopted laws, rules or regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in the loss of revenue and has caused us, and could cause us, to incur significant costs. In addition, on October 2, 2012, the SEC invited representatives from exchanges, broker-dealers, consulting companies, and academic institutions to participate in a Market Technology Roundtable (the "Roundtable") that discussed the relationship between the operational stability and integrity of the securities markets and the ways that market participants design, implement, and manage complex and interconnected trading technologies. The Roundtable was held primarily in response to certain trading technology and systems issues that arose during the initial public offerings of common stock in BATS Global Markets Inc. and Facebook, Inc. on March 23, 2012 and May 18, 2012 respectively, and certain erroneous trading activity by Knight Capital Group, Inc. on August 1, 2012. As a result of these incidents and the issues and concerns raised during the Roundtable discussions, the SEC could propose new regulations and/or rules that require market participants to implement additional policies, procedures, and controls to improve their processes for: (1) preventing trading system and technology malfunctions; (2) detecting erroneous orders and transactions on a real-time basis and (3) responding to technology and/or trading errors. Such measures could include more stringent testing standards and requirements for trading systems, registration of trading systems with regulators, and "Kill Switches" that cut off a market participant's access to external markets if certain transaction thresholds are breached. Finally, on January 9, 2013, FINRA announced that it was planning to heighten its scrutiny over dark pools and high-speed trading. If any regulatory obligations stemming from these developments are implemented, ITG and other market participants could incur significant costs to establish the appropriate processes, systems, and/or controls. If we are unable to obtain sources of data to create our differentiated research product, we could see a reduction in revenues and profitability. Our investment research product leverages data derived from, among other sources, industry data providers and Web harvesting technology. If there is a limitation on the availability of data from these sources or if new regulations or laws restrict their use in investment research products, the quality of our research product could be negatively impacted along with the amount of revenue and profitability we derive from this offering. We could be subject to challenges by U.S. and foreign tax authorities that could result in additional taxes and penalties. We are subject to income and other taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We are also subject to reviews and audits by U.S. and foreign tax authorities. Our determination of our tax obligations in each jurisdiction requires us and our advisers to make judgment calls and estimations. Our determination may differ, even materially, from the judgment of the tax authorities and therefore cause us to incur additional taxes and related interest and penalties, which could impact our financial results. 16 Table of Contents Inability to protect our intellectual property may result in increased competition, loss of business or other negative results on our business and financial condition. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our proprietary intellectual property. We generally rely upon patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to establish and protect our rights in our proprietary technology, methods, products and services. We cannot assure that any of the rights granted under any patent, copyright or trademark that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages. A third party may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent the protective mechanisms that we select. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., so we cannot predict our ability to properly protect our intellectual property in those jurisdictions. Third parties operating in jurisdictions in which we have not filed for protection may obtain rights in intellectual property that we have protected in the U.S. and other jurisdictions or may be able to misappropriate our intellectual property with impunity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property from improper disclosure or use, or that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology without violating our intellectual property. Violations of our intellectual property by third parties could have an adverse effect on our competitiveness and business. In addition, the cost of seeking to enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our financial results. If we were to unknowingly infringe third party intellectual property or be accused of doing so without merit, we would bear significant costs of defense and litigation, which could impact our financial results. In the past several years, there has been a proliferation of patents applicable to the computer and financial services industries. Under current law, U.S. patent applications remain secret for 18 months and may, depending on how they are prosecuted, remain secret until the issuance of a patent. In light of these factors, it is not always possible to determine in advance whether any of our products or services may infringe the present or future patent rights of others. From time to time, we may receive notices from others of claims or potential claims of intellectual property infringement or we may be called upon to defend our product, customer, vendee or licensee against such third party claims. Responding to these kinds of claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable time and result in costly litigation that could have a material adverse effect on us. Such claims could also result in our entering into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement on terms that could have a material impact on our profitability. Financial and operational problems with our acquisitions and strategic initiatives could have a material impact on our results of operation. Over the last several years, we have undertaken several strategic acquisitions, including the acquisitions of RedSky Financial, LLC (now ITG Derivatives), Majestic Research Corp. and Ross Smith Energy Group, Ltd. (together now ITG Investment Research), as well as various organic strategic initiatives. We may elect to pursue strategic acquisitions and strategic initiatives in the future. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including but not limited to difficulties in valuing the acquired businesses, combining personnel and firm cultures, integrating acquired products, services and operations, achieving anticipated synergies that were inherent in our valuation assumptions, the assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies and the potential loss of key clients or employees of acquired companies. Similarly, strategic initiatives may be important to our business prospects and we may not be able to successfully execute such initiatives. In either case, we may have clients, with whom we have established trading relationships that seek to negatively bundle our products or services without increasing the amount of revenue they pay us resulting in loss revenues and profits. If we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions and integrate the acquired businesses, if we suffer a material loss due to an acquired business or if we fail to execute strategic initiatives, we 17 Table of Contents may not achieve appropriate levels of return on these significant investments, which may have a material effect on our operating results. Our business could be adversely affected by our inability to attract and retain talented employees, including sales, technology and development professionals. Our business operations require highly specialized knowledge of the financial industry and of technological innovation as it applies to the financial industry. If we are unable to hire or retain the services of talented management, sales, research, technology and development professionals, we would be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified staff could result in substantial additional costs. Misconduct and errors of our employees could cause us reputational and financial harm. Employee errors in recording or executing transactions for customers can cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle. These transactions expose us to risk of loss, which can be material, until we detect the errors in question and unwind or reverse the transactions. As with any unsettled transaction, adverse movements in the prices of the securities involved in these transactions before we unwind or reverse them can increase this risk. We may incur losses as a result of these transactions that could materially impact our financial results. In addition to trading errors, other employee errors or misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors or misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. Such misconduct could result in losses, litigation or other material adverse effects on the Company. Our inability to effectively manage any management structure changes could create uncertainty regarding our ability to execute our future business plans. We have recently undertaken a review of our businesses in each region to measure our performance by product or service offering. Our inability to effectively manage any management structure changes related to this undertaking could challenge our ability to execute our business plans which could materially impact our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 