ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We have a history of losses and our future profitability on a quarterly or annual basis is uncertain, which could have a harmful effect on our business and the value of BroadVision common stock. Since 2000, we have incurred substantial net operating losses and have not achieved positive cash flows from operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a net loss of $39.0 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.2 billion. Given our planned operating and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future we expect our results of operations to fluctuate, and during this period we may incur losses and/or negative cash flows. If our revenue does not increase or if we fail to maintain our expenses at an amount less than our projected revenue, we will not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability on a consistent basis, if at all. We are continuing efforts to reduce and control our expense structure. We believe strict cost containment and expense reductions are essential to achieving positive cash flow and profitability. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our revenues, including unplanned uses of cash, the inability to accurately forecast business activities and further deterioration of our revenues. If we are not able to effectively reduce our costs and achieve an expense structure commensurate with our business activities and revenues, we may have inadequate levels of cash for operations or for capital requirements, which could significantly harm our ability to operate our business. Our failure to operate profitably or control negative cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis could harm our business and the value of BroadVision common stock. If the negative cash flow continues, our liquidity and ability to operate our business would be severely and adversely impacted. Additionally, our ability to raise financial capital may be hindered due to our operational losses and negative cash flows, reducing our operating flexibility. We face liquidity challenges and may need additional near-term financing. We face liquidity challenges. We currently expect to be able to fund our working capital requirements from our existing cash and cash equivalents and our anticipated cash flows from operations and subleases. However, we could experience unforeseen circumstances, such as an economic downturn, difficulties in retaining customers and/or key employees due going concern issues, or other factors that could increase our use of available cash and require us to seek additional financing. We may find it necessary to obtain additional equity or debt financing due to the factors listed above or in order to support a more rapid expansion, develop new or enhanced products or services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or respond to unanticipated requirements. No adjustments have been made to the carrying values 9 Table of Contents or classification of the assets and liabilities in the accompanying financial statements to take account of any uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If unanticipated events or circumstances occur, the Company may be required to seek additional capital and/or further reduce spending, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its business objectives and continue as a going concern. However, we currently do not have any bank loan agreement or other similar financing arrangement in place that would entitle us to borrow additional funds, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash from ongoing operations, the pending rights offering or from any other source in order to fund our future working capital requirements. We may seek to raise additional funds through private or public sales of securities, strategic relationships, bank debt, financing under leasing arrangements or otherwise. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution or any equity securities we sell may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We expect that obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms would be difficult, at best. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to pay our debts as they become due, develop our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future operating results. Our management identified a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and restated our historical operating results, and we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be discovered or additional restatements will not be made in the future. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and this assessment identified one material weakness. Further, we restated our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2004, due to the subsequent determination that an embedded derivative existed in our convertible notes that should have been separately accounted for as a liability. As of December 31, 2005, we did not have a sufficient number of experienced personnel in our accounting and finance organization to facilitate an efficient financial statement close process and permit the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For example, there were a significant number of adjustments to our financial statements during the course of the 2005 audit, at least one of which was individually material and required us to make the restatement described above. Our personnel also lacked certain required skills and competencies to oversee the accounting operations and perform certain important control functions, such as the review, periodic inspection and investigation of transactions of our foreign locations. We consider this to be a deficiency that is also a material weakness in the operation of entity-level controls. If we are not successful in remedying the deficiencies that caused this material weakness, there is more than a remote likelihood that our quarterly or annual financial statements could be materially misstated, which could require a restatement. As our future staffing is dependent upon filling open positions and retaining existing employees, we are currently unable to determine when this material weakness will be fully remediated. In June 2006 William Meyer resigned as our Chief Financial Officer, a position Mr. Meyer had held since April 2003. Mr. Meyer’s departure compounds our staffing needs and will increase the time it will take to fully remediate this material weakness. The market for skilled accounting personnel is competitive and we may have difficulty in retaining our staff due to (1) our efforts to restructure our operations by reducing our workforce and other cost containment activities and (2) the uncertainty created by the recent execution and subsequent termination of our merger agreement with an affiliate of Vector Capital Corporation. Our inability to staff the department with competent personnel with sufficient training may affect our internal controls over financial reporting to the extent that we may not be able to prevent or detect material misstatements. Inferior internal control could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents Our business currently depends on revenue related to our BroadVision Self-Service Suite, and if the market does not increasingly accept this product and related products and services, our revenue may continue to decline. We generate our revenue from licenses of the BroadVision Self-Service Suite, including process, commerce, portal and content management and related products and services. We expect that these products, and future upgraded versions, will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Our future financial performance will depend on increasing acceptance of our current product and on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products. If new and future versions and updates of our products and services do not gain market acceptance when released commercially, or if we fail to deliver the product enhancements and complementary third party products that customers want, demand for our products and services, and our revenue, may decline. If we are unable to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in online commerce and communication, our products and services may fail to be competitive. Our products and services may fail to be competitive if we do not maintain or exceed the pace of technological developments in Internet commerce and communication. Failure to be competitive could cause our revenue to decline. The information services, software and communications industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards and practices. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can render existing products and services obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop leading technologies; • enhance our existing products and services; • develop new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our sales and product implementation cycles are lengthy and subject to delay, which make it difficult to predict our quarterly results. Our sales and product implementation cycles generally span months. Delays in customer orders or product implementations, which are difficult to predict, can affect the timing of revenue recognition and adversely affect our quarterly operating results. Licensing our products is often an enterprise-wide decision by prospective customers. The importance of this decision requires that we engage in a lengthy sales cycle with prospective customers. A successful sales cycle may last up to nine months or longer. Our sales cycle is also affected by a number of other factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including the volatility of the overall software market, the business condition and purchasing cycle of each prospective customer, and the performance of our technology partners, systems integrators and resellers. The implementation of our products can also be time and resource intensive, and subject to unexpected delays. Delays in either product sales or implementations could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Because our quarterly operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, our quarterly operating results in one or future periods are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. For example, in the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, our revenues declined 22%, 23% and 18%, respectively, as compared to the previous fiscal year quarters. In the quarters ended June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004, our revenues declined 8%, 7% and 15%, respectively, as compared to the same quarterly periods in the prior fiscal year. If 11 Table of Contents our revenues, operating results, earnings or future projections are below the levels expected of securities analysts or investors, our stock price is likely to decline. We expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: • introduction of products and services and enhancements by us and our competitors; • competitive factors that affect our pricing; • market acceptance of new products; • the mix of products sold by us; • changes in our pricing policies or our competitors; • changes in our sales incentive plans; • the budgeting cycles of our customers; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products or enhancements by us or our competitors or because of macro-economic conditions; • nonrenewal of our maintenance agreements, which generally automatically renew for one-year terms unless earlier terminated by either party upon 90-days notice; • product life cycles; • changes in strategy; • seasonal trends; • the mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold; • the mix of international and domestic sales; • the rate at which new sales people become productive; • changes in the level of operating expenses to support projected growth; • increase in the amount of third party products and services that we use in our products or resell with royalties attached; • fluctuations in the recorded value of outstanding common stock warrants that will be based upon changes to the underlying market value of BroadVision common stock; • the timing of receipt and fulfillment of significant orders; and • costs associated with litigation, regulatory compliance and other corporate events such as operational reorganizations. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and that these comparisons are not accurate indicators of future performance. Because our staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, and because a high percentage of our costs are fixed, small variations in the timing of the recognition of specific revenue could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. If we are unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall, any significant revenue shortfall would likely have an immediate negative effect on our operating results. If our operating results in one or more future quarters fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. 12 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our sales activity occurs at the end of each fiscal quarter, delays in a relatively small number of license transactions could adversely affect our quarterly operating results. A significant proportion, generally over 40%, of our sales are concentrated in the last month of each fiscal quarter. Gross margins are high for our license transactions. Customers and prospective customers may use these conditions in an attempt to obtain more favorable terms. While we endeavor to avoid making concessions that could result in lower margins, the negotiations often result in delays in closing license transactions. Small delays in a relatively small number of license transactions could have a significant impact on our reported operating results for that quarter. We have substantially modified our business and operations and will need to manage and support these changes effectively in order for our business plan to succeed. We substantially expanded then contracted our business and operations since our inception in 1993. We grew from 652 employees at the end of 1999 to 2,412 employees at the end of 2000 and then reduced our numbers to 1,102 at the end of 2001, 449 at the end of 2002, 367 at the end of 2003 and 337 at the end of 2004. On June 29, 2005, our Board of Directors approved a business restructuring plan, which included a reduction in headcount by an additional 63 employees. On December 31, 2005, we had 181 employees. As a consequence of our employee base growing and then contracting so rapidly, we entered into significant contracts for facilities space for which we ultimately determined we did not have a future use. We announced during the third and fourth quarters of 2004 that we had agreed with the landlords of various facilities to renegotiate future lease commitments, extinguishing a total of approximately $155 million of future obligations. The management of the expansion and later reduction of our operations has taken a considerable amount of our management’s attention during the past several years. As we manage our business to introduce and support new products, we will need to continue to monitor our workforce and make appropriate changes as necessary. If we are unable to support past and implement future changes effectively, we may have to divert additional resources away from executing our business plan and toward internal administration. If our expenses significantly outpace our revenues, we may have to make additional changes to our management systems and our business plan may not succeed. Modifications to our business and operations may not result in a reduced cost structure as anticipated and may otherwise adversely impact our productivity. Since 2000, we have substantially modified our business and operations in order to reduce our cost structure. These modifications included closing facilities, reducing liability for idle lease space and reducing our employee headcount, while maintaining sales efforts and providing continuing customer support by reallocating the workload among continuing employees. We may not realize anticipated reductions in our cost structure, which will delay or prevent us from achieving sustained profitability. In addition, these modifications may result in lower revenues as a result of the decreased headcount in our sales and marketing and professional services groups, or other adverse impacts on productivity that we did not anticipate. We are dependent on direct sales personnel and third-party distribution channels to achieve revenue growth. To date, we have sold our products primarily through our direct sales force. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future largely will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel and establishing and maintaining relationships with distributors, resellers and systems integrators. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. New hires as well as employees of our distributors, resellers and systems integrators require training and take time to achieve full productivity. Our recent hires may not become as productive as necessary, and we may be unable to hire and retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future. We have entered into strategic alliance agreements with partners, under which partners have agreed to resell and support our current BroadVision product suite. These contracts are generally terminable by either party upon 30 days’ notice of an uncured material breach or for convenience upon 90 days’ notice prior to the end of any annual term. Termination of any of these alliances could harm our 13 Table of Contents expected revenues. We may be unable to expand our other distribution channels, and any expansion may not result in revenue increases. If we fail to maintain and expand our direct sales force or other distribution channels, our revenues may not grow or they may decline. Revenue generated from third-party distributors in recent years has not been significant. Failure to maintain relationships with third-party systems integrators could harm our ability to achieve our business plan. Our relationships with third-party systems integrators who deploy our products have been a key factor in our overall business strategy, particularly because many of our current and prospective customers rely on integrators to develop, deploy and manage their online marketplaces. Our efforts to manage our relationships with systems integrators may not succeed, which could harm our ability to achieve our business plan due to a variety of factors, including: • Systems integrators may not view their relationships with us as valuable to their own businesses. The related arrangements typically may be terminated by either party with limited notice and in some cases are not covered by a formal agreement. • Under our business model, we often rely on our system integrators’ employees to perform implementations. If we fail to work together effectively, or if these parties perform poorly, our reputation may be harmed and deployment of our products may be delayed or inadequate. • Systems integrators may attempt to market their own products and services rather than ours. • Our competitors may have stronger relationships with our systems integrators than us and, as a result, these integrators may recommend a competitor’s products and services over ours. • If we lose our relationships with our systems integrators, we will not have the personnel necessary to deploy our products effectively, and we will need to commit significant additional sales and marketing resources in an effort to reach the markets and customers served by these parties. We may be unable to manage or grow our international operations and assets, which could impair our overall growth or financial position. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our operations outside North America. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, approximately 43% of our revenues were derived from international sales. If we are unable to manage or grow our existing international operations, we may not generate sufficient revenue required to establish and maintain these operations, which could slow our overall growth and impair our operating margins. As we rely heavily on our operations outside of North America, we are subject to significant risks of doing business internationally, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and safeguarding foreign assets; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • export controls relating to encryption technology and other export restrictions; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • cultural barriers; 14 Table of Contents • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Management of international operations presents special challenges, particularly at our reduced staffing levels. For example, in December 2005, an inappropriate transfer of approximately $60,000 was made from our bank account in Japan to a consulting services provider affiliated with two officers of our Japan subsidiary without the approvals required under our internal control policies. Although this transfer was later detected, the funds were recaptured and the services of the Japan subsidiary officers involved were terminated, we face the risk that other similar misappropriations of assets may occur in the future. In addition our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to establish additional foreign operations, expand international sales channel management and support, hire additional personnel, customize products for local markets and develop relationships with international service providers, distributors and system integrators. Even if we are able to successfully expand our international operations, we may not succeed in maintaining or expanding international market demand for our products. Current and potential competitors could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers now and in the future. The market for our products is intensely competitive. We expect competition in this market to persist and increase in the future. If we fail to compete successfully with current or future competitors, we may be unable to attract and retain customers. Increased competition could also result in price reductions for our products and lower profit margins and reduced market share, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, greater name recognition, a broader range of products and a larger installed customer base, any of which could provide them with a significant competitive advantage. In addition, new competitors, or alliances among existing and future competitors, may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Some of our competitors, particularly established software vendors, may also be able to provide customers with products and services comparable to ours at lower or at aggressively reduced prices in an effort to increase market share or as part of a broader software package they are selling to a customer. We may be unable to match competitors’ prices or price reductions, and we may fail to win customers that choose to purchase an information technology solution as part of a broader software and services package. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with current or new competitors. Our success and competitive position will depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We hold a U.S. patent, issued in January 1998, on elements of the BroadVision platform, which covers electronic commerce operations common in today’s web business. We also hold a U.S. patent, issued in November 1996, acquired as part of the Interleaf acquisition on the elements of the extensible electronic document processing system for creating new classes of active documents. Although we hold these patents, they may not provide an adequate level of intellectual property protection. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible that third parties may claim we have infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims may be made for indemnification resulting from allegations of infringement. Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted against us as a result of the use by third parties of our products. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could harm our business. We also rely on copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have registered “BroadVision”, “iGuide”, “BroadVision Self-Service Suite”, “BroadVision Process”, “BroadVision Commerce”, “Broadvision Portal”, 15 Table of Contents “BroadVision Content” and “Interleaf” as trademarks in the United States and in other countries. It is possible that our competitors or other companies will adopt product names similar to these trademarks, impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly confusing customers. As a matter of company policy, we enter into confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and vendors. We also control access to and distribution of our software, documents and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for an unauthorized third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software or other proprietary information or to develop similar software independently. Policing unauthorized use of our products will be difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software and other transmitted data. The laws of other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. A breach of the encryption technology that we use could expose us to liability and harm our reputation, causing a loss of customers. If any breach of the security technology embedded in our products were to occur, we would be exposed to liability and our reputation could be harmed, which could cause us to lose customers. A significant barrier to online commerce and communication is the secure exchange of valuable and confidential information over public networks. We rely on encryption and authentication technology, including Open SSL and public key cryptography technology featuring the major encryption algorithms RC2 and MDS, to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure exchange of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could cause a breach of the RSA or other algorithms that we use to protect customer transaction data. The loss or malfunction of technology licensed from third parties could delay the introduction of our products and services. We rely in part on technology that we license from third parties, including relational database management systems from Oracle and Sybase, Informix object request broker software from IONA Technologies PLC, and database access technology from Rogue Wave Software. The loss or malfunction of any of these technology licenses could harm our business. We integrate or sublicense this technology with internally developed software to perform key functions. For example, our products and services incorporate data encryption and authentication technology licensed from Open SSL. Third-party technology licenses might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, the licensed technology may contain defects that we cannot control. Problems with our technology licenses could cause delays in introducing our products or services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. Delays in introducing our products and services could adversely affect our results of operations. Our executive officers, key employees and highly skilled technical and managerial personnel are critical to our business, and they may not remain with us in the future. Our performance substantially depends on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We also rely on our ability to retain and motivate qualified personnel, especially our management and highly skilled development teams. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees, particularly our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Pehong Chen, could cause us to incur increased operating expenses and divert senior management resources in searching for replacements. The loss of their services also could harm our reputation if our customers were to become concerned about our future operations. We do not carry “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Internet industry. We have in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. The significant downturn in our business and the uncertainty created by the recent execution and subsequent termination of our merger agreement with an affiliate of Vector has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our operations. We have restructured our operations by reducing our 16 Table of Contents workforce and implementing other cost containment activities. These actions could lead to disruptions in our business, reduced employee morale and productivity, increased attrition, and problems with retaining existing and recruiting future employees. Limitations on the online collection of profile information could impair the effectiveness of our products. Online users’ resistance to providing personal data, and laws and regulations prohibiting use of personal data gathered online without express consent or requiring businesses to notify their web site visitors of the possible dissemination of their personal data, could limit the effectiveness of our products. This in turn could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. One of the principal features of our products is the ability to develop and maintain profiles of online users to assist business managers in determining the nature of the content to be provided to these online users. Typically, profile information is captured when consumers, business customers and employees visit a web site and volunteer information in response to survey questions concerning their backgrounds, interests and preferences. Profiles can be augmented over time through the subsequent collection of usage data. Although our products are designed to enable the development of applications that permit web site visitors to prevent the distribution of any of their personal data beyond that specific web site, privacy concerns may nevertheless cause visitors to resist providing the personal data necessary to support this profiling capability. The mere perception by prospective customers that substantial security and privacy concerns exist among online users, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, new laws and regulations could heighten privacy concerns by requiring businesses to notify web site users that the data captured from them while online may be used by marketing entities to direct product messages to them. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal and state levels relating to online privacy and the use of personal user information. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. In addition, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has urged Congress to adopt legislation regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing web sites. The FTC has settled several proceedings resulting in consent decrees in which Internet companies have been required to establish programs regarding the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. We could become a party to a similar enforcement proceeding. These regulatory and enforcement efforts could also harm our customers’ ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could impair the effectiveness of our products. We may not have adequate back-up systems, and natural or manmade disasters could damage our operations, reduce our revenue and lead to a loss of customers. We do not have fully redundant systems for service at an alternate site. A disaster could severely harm our business because our service could be interrupted for an indeterminate length of time. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems at our facility in Redwood City, California, which reside on or near known earthquake fault zones. Although these systems are designed to be fault tolerant, they are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, acts of terrorism, telecommunications failures and similar events. In addition, our facilities in California could be subject to electrical blackouts if California faces another power shortage similar to that of 2001. Although we do have a backup generator that would maintain critical operations, this generator could fail. We also have significantly reduced our workforce in a short period of time, which has placed different requirements on our systems and has caused us to lose personnel knowledgeable about our systems, both of which could make it more difficult to quickly resolve system disruptions. Disruptions in our internal business operations could harm our business by resulting in delays, disruption of our customers’ business, loss of data, and loss of customer confidence. 17 Table of Contents Risks related to BroadVision common stock Our stock price has been highly volatile. The trading price of BroadVision common stock has been highly volatile. For example, the trading price of BroadVision common stock has ranged from $0.32 per share to $9.05 per share between January 1, 2004 and May 1, 2006. On May 1, 2006 the closing price of BroadVision common stock was $0.49 per share. Our stock price is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • announcements of new software or services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • general economic conditions; or • other events or factors that are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of Internet or electronic commerce companies could further depress our stock price regardless of our results. Other broad market fluctuations may decrease the trading price of BroadVision common stock. In the past, following declines in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation, such as the class action lawsuits filed against us and certain of our officers and directors in early 2001, has often been instituted against that company. Litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. 