ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our business currently depends on revenue related to BroadVision e-business solutions, and if the market does not increasingly accept these products and related products and services, our revenue may continue to decline. We generate our revenue from licenses of BroadVision e-business solutions, including process, commerce, portal and content management and related products and services. We expect that these products, and future upgraded versions, will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Our future financial performance will depend on increasing acceptance of our current products and on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products. If new and future versions and updates of our products and services do not gain market acceptance when released commercially, or if we fail to deliver the product enhancements and complementary third party products that customers want, demand for our products and services, and our revenue, may decline. Our future financial performance will also depend on our ability to retain our installed base. When existing customers move away from us, often due to budget or competition, we lose recurring maintenance revenue and future up-sell opportunities. We have recently introduced new products, services and technologies and our business will be harmed if we are not successful in selling these offerings to our existing customers and new customers. We initially released Clearvale in 2009 and have recently integrated Clearvale’s social and mobile capabilities into BroadVision 9, a new solution we announced at the beginning of 2013. We have been actively enhancing Clearvale and adding editions such as Clearvale Enterprise, Clearvale PaasPort and Clearvale Express. We have spent significant resources in developing these offerings and training our employees to implement and support the offerings, and we plan to add additional sales and marketing resources to support these new products, services and technologies. To date our Clearvale and BroadVision 9 offerings have not generated significant revenues. We do not yet know whether any of these new offerings will appeal to existing and potential new customers, and if so, whether sales of these new offerings will be sufficient for us to offset the costs of development, implementation, support, operation and marketing. Although we have performed extensive testing of our new products and technologies, their broad-based implementation may require more support than we anticipate, which would further increase our expenses. If sales of our new products, services and technologies are lower than we expect, or if we must lower our prices or delay implementation to fix unforeseen problems and develop modifications, our operating margins are likely to decrease and we may not be able to operate profitably. We have recently introduced Cloud-based offerings. Our business will be harmed and our growth potential will be limited, if we are unable to provide reliable, scalable, and cost-efficient Cloud hosting operation. Traditionally, BroadVision has offered perpetual software licenses, with customers responsible for the IT equipment needed for running BroadVision software. The new Clear and Clearvale products, on the other hand, include Cloud-based offerings, where BroadVision provides hosted IT equipment and operation for subscribing customers. The Cloud model is also known as Software-as-a-Service, or SaaS. BroadVision has limited prior experience in operating Cloud hosting. We may be unable to timely provide adequate computing capacity to keep up with business growth and performance requirements. Our hosted operation may fail due to hardware problems, software problems, power problems, network problems, scalability problems, human errors, hacker attacks, disasters, third-party data center problems and other reasons. The failures may cause us to compromise security, lose customer data or identity, endure prolonged downtime, etc., all of which will harm our business and limit our growth. BroadVision has limited prior experience in estimating the costs of Cloud hosting. If we underestimate the costs or under-charge customers, we may not have adequate margins to sustain the Cloud hosting operation. Clearvale allows customers to use basic functions for free, a business practice gaining popularity in our industry. If we do not have enough customers upgrading to for-fee premium packages, we may be unable to sustain our Cloud hosting operation economically. Current and potential competitors could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers now and in the future. The market for our products is intensely competitive. We expect competition in this market to persist and increase in the future. If we fail to compete successfully with current or future competitors, we may be unable to attract and retain customers. Increased competition could also result in price reductions for our products and lower profit margins and reduced market share, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, greater name recognition, a broader range of products and a larger installed customer base, any of which could provide them with a significant 6 competitive advantage. In addition, new competitors, or alliances among existing and future competitors, may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Some of our competitors, particularly established software vendors, may also be able to provide customers with products and services comparable to ours at lower or at aggressively reduced prices in an effort to increase market share or as part of a broader software package they are selling to a customer. We may be unable to match competitor's prices or price reductions, and we may fail to win customers that choose to purchase an information technology solution as part of a broader software and services package. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with current or new competitors. If we are unable to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in online commerce, portal, social networking and enterprise software, our products and services may fail to be competitive. Our products and services may fail to be competitive if we do not maintain or exceed the pace of technological developments in Internet commerce, portal, social networking and enterprise software. Failure to be competitive could cause our revenue to decline. The information services, software and communications industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards and practices. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can render existing products and services obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop leading technologies; • enhance our existing products and services; • develop new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. We have a history of losses and our future profitability on a quarterly or annual basis is uncertain, which could have a harmful effect on our business and the value of BroadVision common stock. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.2 billion. Given our planned operating and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future we expect our results of operations to fluctuate, and during this period we may incur losses and/or negative cash flows. If our revenue does not increase or if we fail to maintain our expenses at an amount less than our projected revenue, we will not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability on a consistent basis. We are continuing our efforts to reduce and control our expense structure. We believe strict cost containment and expense reductions are essential to achieving positive cash flow and profitability. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our revenues, including increased investments in new products, unplanned uses of cash, the inability to accurately forecast business activities and further deterioration of our revenues. If we are not able to effectively reduce our costs and achieve an expense structure commensurate with our business activities and revenues, we may have inadequate levels of cash for operations or for capital requirements, which could significantly harm our ability to operate our business. Our failure to operate profitably or control negative cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis could harm our business and the value of BroadVision common stock. If the negative cash flow continues, our liquidity and ability to operate our business would be severely and adversely impacted. Additionally, our ability to raise financial capital may be hindered due to our operational losses and negative cash flows, reducing our operating flexibility. Our quarterly operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, and our stock price may decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Historically our quarterly operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. If our revenues, operating results, earnings or projections are below the levels expected by securities analysts or investors, our stock price is likely to decline. We are likely to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our future results of operations due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: • introduction of products and services and enhancements by us and our competitors; • competitive factors that affect our pricing; • market acceptance of new products; • the mix of products sold by us; • the timing of receipt, fulfillment and recognition as revenue of significant orders; • changes in our pricing policies or our competitors; • changes in our sales incentive plans; • the budgeting cycles of our customers; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us or because of macro-economic conditions; • nonrenewal of our maintenance agreements, which generally automatically renew for one-year terms unless earlier terminated by either party upon 90-days notice; • product life cycles; • changes in strategy; • seasonal trends; • the mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold; • the mix of international and domestic sales; • the rate at which new sales people become productive; • changes in the level of operating expenses to support projected growth; • increase in the amount of third party products and services that we use in our products or resell with royalties attached; • fluctuations in the recorded value of outstanding common stock warrants that will be based upon changes to the underlying market value of BroadVision common stock; and • costs associated with litigation, regulatory compliance and other corporate events such as operational reorganizations. 7 As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and that these comparisons are not accurate indicators of future performance. Because our staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, and because a high percentage of our costs are fixed, small variations in the timing of the recognition of specific revenue could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. If we were unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall, any significant revenue shortfall would likely have an immediate negative effect on our operating results. If our operating results in one or more future quarters fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Our sales and product implementation cycles are lengthy and subject to delay, which make it difficult to predict our quarterly results. Our sales and product implementation cycles generally span months. Delays in customer orders or product implementations, which are difficult to predict, can affect the timing of revenue recognition and adversely affect our quarterly operating results. Licensing our products is often an enterprise-wide decision by prospective customers. The importance of this decision requires that we engage in a lengthy sales cycle with prospective customers. A successful sales cycle may last up to nine months or longer. Our sales cycle is also affected by a number of other factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including the volatility of the overall software market, the business condition and purchasing cycle of each prospective customer, and the performance of our technology partners, systems integrators and resellers. The implementation of our products can also be time and resource intensive, and subject to unexpected delays. Delays in either product sales or implementations could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Because a significant portion of our sales activity occurs at the end of each fiscal quarter, delays in a relatively small number of license transactions could adversely affect our quarterly operating results. A significant proportion of our sales are concentrated in the last month of each fiscal quarter. Gross margins are high for our license transactions. Customers and prospective customers may use these conditions in an attempt to obtain more favorable terms. While we endeavor to avoid making concessions that could result in lower margins, the negotiations often result in delays in closing license transactions. Small delays in a relatively small number of license transactions could have a significant impact on our reported operating results for that quarter. We have substantially modified our business and operations and will need to manage and support these changes effectively in order for our business plan to succeed. We have substantially expanded and subsequently contracted our business and operations since our inception in 1993. We grew from 652 employees at the end of 1999 to 2,412 employees at the end of 2000 and then reduced our numbers to 165 at the end of 2011. On December 31, 2012, we had 175 employees. As a consequence of our employee base growing and then contracting so rapidly, we entered into significant contracts for facilities space for which we ultimately determined we did not have a future use. We announced during the third and fourth quarters of 2004 that we had agreed with the landlords of various facilities to renegotiate future lease commitments, extinguishing a total of approximately $155 million of future obligations. The management of the expansion and later reduction of our operations has taken a considerable amount of our management's attention during the past several years. As we manage our business to introduce and support new products, we will need to continue to monitor our workforce and make appropriate changes as necessary. If we are unable to support past changes and implement future changes effectively, we may have to divert additional resources away from executing our business plan and toward internal administration. If our expenses significantly outpace our revenues, we may have to make additional changes to our management systems and our business plan may not succeed. We may face liquidity challenges and need additional financing in the future. 8 We currently expect to be able to fund our working capital requirements from our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments through at least December 31, 2013. However, we could experience unforeseen circumstances, such as an economic downturn, difficulties in retaining customers and/or key employees, or other factors that could increase our use of available cash and require us to seek additional financing. We may find it necessary to obtain additional equity or debt financing due to the factors listed above or in order to support a more rapid expansion, develop new or enhanced products or services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or respond to unanticipated requirements. We may seek to raise additional funds through private or public sales of securities, strategic relationships, bank debt, financing under leasing arrangements or otherwise. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution or any equity securities we sell may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We expect that obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms would be difficult, at best. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to pay our debts as they become due, develop our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future operating results. If we are unable to maintain our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We have evaluated our "disclosure controls and procedures" as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Effective controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Maintaining sufficient expertise and historical institutional knowledge in our accounting and finance organization is dependent upon retaining existing employees and filling any open positions with experienced personnel in a timely fashion. The market for skilled accounting and finance personnel is competitive and we may have continued difficulty in retaining our staff because the region in which we compete consists of many established companies that can offer more lucrative compensation packages. Our inability to staff the department with competent personnel with sufficient training will affect our internal controls over financial reporting to the extent that we may not be able to prevent or detect material misstatements. We are dependent on direct sales personnel and third-party distribution channels to achieve revenue growth. To date, we have sold our products primarily through our direct sales force. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future largely will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel and establishing and maintaining relationships with distributors, resellers and systems integrators. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. New hires as well as employees of our distributors, resellers and systems integrators require training and may take a significant amount of time before achieving full productivity. Our recent hires may not become as productive as necessary, and we may be unable to hire and retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future. We have entered into strategic alliance agreements with partners, under which partners have agreed to resell and support our current BroadVision product suite. These contracts are generally terminable by either party upon 30 days' notice of an uncured material breach or for convenience upon 90 days' notice prior to the end of any annual term. Termination of any of these alliances could harm our expected revenues. We may be unable to expand our other distribution channels, and any expansion may not result in revenue increases. If we fail to maintain and expand our direct sales force or other distribution channels, our revenues may not grow or they may decline. Revenue generated from third-party distributors in recent years has not been significant. Failure to maintain relationships with third-party systems integrators could harm our ability to achieve our business plan. Our relationships with third-party systems integrators who deploy our products have been a key factor in our overall business strategy, particularly because many of our current and prospective customers rely on integrators to develop, deploy and manage their online marketplaces. Our efforts to manage our relationships with systems integrators may not succeed, which could harm our ability to achieve our business plan due to a variety of factors, including: • Systems integrators may not view their relationships with us as valuable to their own businesses. The related arrangements typically may be terminated by either party with limited notice and in some cases are not covered by a formal agreement. • Under our business model, we often rely on our system integrators' employees to perform implementations. If we fail to work together effectively, or if these parties perform poorly, our reputation may be harmed and deployment of our products may be delayed or inadequate. • Systems integrators may attempt to market their own products and services rather than ours. • Our competitors may have stronger relationships with our systems integrators than us and, as a result, these integrators may recommend a competitor's products and services over ours. • If we lose our relationships with our systems integrators, we will not have the personnel necessary to deploy our products effectively, and we will need to commit significant additional sales and marketing resources in an effort to reach the markets and customers served by these parties. 9 We may be unable to manage or grow our international operations and assets, which could impair our overall growth or financial position. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our operations outside North America. In the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 58% of our revenue was derived from international sales. If we are unable to manage or grow our existing international operations, we may not generate sufficient revenue required to establish and maintain these operations, which could slow our overall growth and impair our operating margins. As we rely materially on our operations outside of North America, we are subject to significant risks of doing business internationally, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and safeguarding foreign assets; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • export controls relating to encryption technology and other export restrictions; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • cultural barriers; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Our international sales growth could be limited if we are unable to establish additional foreign operations, expand international sales channel management and support, hire additional personnel, customize products for local markets and develop relationships with international service providers, distributors and system integrators. Even if we are able to successfully expand our international operations, we may not succeed in maintaining or expanding international market demand for our products. Our success and competitive position will depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We hold a U.S. patent, issued in January 1998, on elements of the BroadVision platform, which covers electronic commerce operations common in today's web business. We also hold a U.S. patent, issued in November 1996, acquired as part of the Interleaf acquisition on the elements of the extensible electronic document processing system for creating new classes of active documents. Although we hold these patents, they may not provide an adequate level of intellectual property protection. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we have infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims may be made for indemnification resulting from allegations of infringement. Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted against us as a result of the use by third parties of our products. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could harm our business. We also rely on copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have registered "BroadVision", "Clearvale", "Interleaf" and "Interleaf Xtreme" as trademarks in the United States and in other countries. It is possible that our competitors or other companies will adopt product names similar to these trademarks, impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly confusing customers. As a matter of our company policy, we enter into confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and vendors. We also control access to and distribution of our software, documents and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for an unauthorized third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software or other proprietary information or to develop similar software independently. Policing unauthorized use of our products will be difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software and other transmitted data. The laws of other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. A breach of the encryption technology that we use could expose us to liability and harm our reputation, causing a loss of customers. If any breach of the security technology embedded in our products or hosted Cloud operation were to occur, we would be exposed to liability and our reputation could be harmed, which could cause us to lose customers. A significant barrier to online commerce, portal, social networking and enterprise software the secure exchange of valuable and confidential information over public networks. We rely on encryption and authentication technology, such as Open SSL, public key cryptography, encryption algorithms RC2 10 and MD5, digital certificates and HTTPS, to provide the security and authentication necessary to affect the secure exchange of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, new hacking methods, security holes in 3rd-party components (such as operating system bugs) or other events or developments could cause a breach of the above measures that we use to protect customer data and identity. The loss or malfunction of technology from third parties could delay the introduction of our products and services. We rely in part on technology that we license from third parties or we obtain from open sources, including relational database management systems from Oracle, Microsoft and MySQL; object request broker software from IONA Technologies PLC; J2EE from Oracle and JBoss; and others. The loss or malfunction of any third-party technology could harm our business. We integrate or sublicense third-party technology with internally developed software to perform key functions. For example, our products and services incorporate data encryption and authentication technology from Open SSL. Third-party technology might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, third-party technology may contain defects that we cannot control. Problems with third-party technology could cause delays in introducing our products or services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed or obtained, and integrated. Delays in introducing our products and services could adversely affect our results of operations. Our officers, key employees and highly skilled technical and managerial personnel are critical to our business, and they may not remain with us in the future. Our performance substantially depends on the performance of our officers and key employees. We also rely on our ability to retain and motivate qualified personnel, especially our management and highly skilled development teams. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees, particularly our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Pehong Chen, could cause us to incur increased operating expenses and divert senior management resources in searching for replacements. The loss of their services also could harm our reputation if our customers were to become concerned about our future operations. We do not carry "key person" life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Internet industry. We have in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. The significant downturn in our business over the past several years has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our operations. We have restructured our operations by reducing our workforce and implementing other cost containment activities. These actions could lead to disruptions in our business, reduced employee morale and productivity, increased attrition, and problems with retaining existing and recruiting future employees. Limitations on the online collection of profile information could impair the effectiveness of our products. Online users' resistance to providing personal data, and laws and regulations prohibiting use of personal data gathered online without express consent or requiring businesses to notify their web site visitors of the possible dissemination of their personal data, could limit the effectiveness of our products. This in turn could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. One of the principal features of our products is the ability to develop and maintain profiles of online users to assist business managers in determining the nature of the content to be provided to these online users. Typically, profile information is captured when consumers, business customers and employees visit a web site and volunteer information in response to survey questions concerning their backgrounds, interests and preferences. Profiles can be augmented over time through the subsequent collection of usage data. Although our products are designed to enable the development of applications that permit web site visitors to prevent the distribution of any of their personal data beyond that specific web site, privacy concerns may nevertheless cause visitors to resist providing the personal data necessary to support this profiling capability. The mere perception by prospective customers that substantial security and privacy concerns exist among online users, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, new laws and regulations could heighten privacy concerns by requiring businesses to notify web site users that the data captured from them while online may be used by marketing entities to direct product messages to them. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal and state levels relating to online privacy and the use of personal user information. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. In addition, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has urged Congress to adopt legislation regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing web sites. The FTC has settled several proceedings resulting in consent decrees in which Internet companies have been required to establish programs regarding the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. We could become a party to a similar enforcement proceeding. These regulatory and enforcement efforts could also harm our customers' ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could impair the effectiveness of our products. In addition, the European Union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies with customers in Europe. We may not have adequate back-up systems, and natural or manmade disasters could damage our operations, reduce our revenue and lead to a loss of customers. 11 We do not have fully redundant systems for service at an alternate site. A disaster could severely harm our business because our service could be interrupted for an indeterminate length of time. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems at our facility in Redwood City, California, which reside on or near known earthquake fault zones. Although these systems are designed to be fault tolerant, they are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, acts of terrorism, telecommunications failures and similar events. In addition, our facilities in California could be subject to electrical blackouts if California faces another power shortage similar to that of 2001. We also have significantly reduced our workforce in a short period of time, which has placed different requirements on our systems and has caused us to lose personnel knowledgeable about our systems, both of which could make it more difficult to quickly resolve system disruptions. Disruptions in our internal business operations could harm our business by resulting in delays, disruption of our customers' business, loss of data, and loss of customer confidence. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk. A total of 58% and 60% of our fiscal year 2012 and 2011 revenues, respectively, were derived from international operations. Our revenues outside the United States may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, a total of 33% of our cash and cash equivalents as well as investments are denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2012. A discussion of the financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we may attempt to address any impact is contained in Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We do not engage in any hedging activities in order to manage any potential adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can address these risks. Risks related to BroadVision common stock One stockholder beneficially owns a substantial portion of the outstanding BroadVision common stock, and as a result exerts substantial control over us. As of December 31, 2012, Dr. Pehong Chen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), beneficially owned approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 35% of the outstanding common stock as of such date. As a result, Dr. Chen exerts substantial control over all matters coming to a vote of our stockholders, including with respect to: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities; and • the payment of dividends on our capital stock. This control by Dr. Chen could depress the market price of our common stock or delay or prevent a change in control of BroadVision. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The trading price of BroadVision common stock has been highly volatile, especially since the beginning of fiscal year 2012. The trading price of BroadVision common stock ranged from $7.81 per share to $56.46 per share between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012. The trading price of our common stock in fiscal year 2012 ranged from $7.81 per share to $56.46 per share, which was a four year high trading price for our stock. Our stock price is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • announcements of new software or services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • low trading volume on the NASDAQ Global Market; • general economic conditions; or • other events or factors that are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of Internet, enterprise social networking or electronic commerce companies could further depress our stock price regardless of our results. Other broad market fluctuations may decrease the trading price of BroadVision common stock. In the past, following declines in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation, such as the class action lawsuits filed against us and certain of our officers and 12 directors in early 2001, has often been instituted against that company. Litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. 