Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading prices of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions including the following: Risks affecting Our Business: A significant amount of our loans, including our SBA loan portfolio, have variable rates of interest. As rates have risen, this has caused some borrowers difficulty meeting their loan obligations. A significant amount of our loans, over 77% of the total portfolio and all of our SBA loans, have variable rates, which reset periodically. As interest rates have risen, the interest due on these loans has also increased, making the debt more expensive for borrowers. This is particularly true of our SBA loans, which generally carry higher rates of interest than comparable commercial loans. We have already experienced higher rates of defaults in our SBA loan portfolio, and if interest rates continue to rise, we believe we may continue to see increasing rates of loan defaults. Increases in loan defaults will negatively effect our results of operations. Due to the current state of the yield curve, our net interest margin and net interest spread have declined. Continued declines in our net interest margin and net interest spread will negatively impact our results of operations. During 2006, the yield curve, i.e. the difference between short and long term rates of interest, has been flat or inverted. This has impacted our results of operations, since most of our funding (our deposits) are short term, while our assets (our loans) are longer term obligations. If the yield curve remains flat, or short term rates continue to rise relative to longer term rates, our net interest income and results of operations will be negatively impacted. We are expanding our SBA lending program outside of our historic trade area. Our success in this program will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees or correspondents in new geographic areas, our ability to manage and supervise these remote employees and correspondents and our ability to recognize and manage risks in these areas that are different from those in our trade area. We have been granted nationwide lending authority by the SBA and we intend to expand our SBA lending program beyond our traditional trade area. Lending in areas that are remote from our physical locations and our traditional trade area involves a number of risks, including our ability to identify and recruit qualified employees or correspondents to originate loans in these areas, our management’s ability to supervise these employees and correspondents from our New Jersey headquarters and our ability to identify and account for underwriting risks in these areas that may be different from those in our traditional trade area. If we are unable to properly manage these risks, it will adversely effect our results of operations. Our earnings may not continue to grow if we are unable to successfully attract core deposits and lending opportunities and exploit opportunities to generate fee-based income. We have experienced significant growth, and our future business strategy is to continue to expand. Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in our increase in net interest income. In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, successfully attract core deposits, and identify loan and investment opportunities as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. Our ability to manage growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. Our growth-oriented business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees and manage our expenses. We expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and correspondingly in the number of our employees and customers. We may not be able to successfully manage our business as a result of the strain on our management and operations that may result from this growth. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. Curtailment of the Small Business Administration loan program could negatively affect the Company. The Company has historically been a participant in various SBA lending programs, and the Company’s activity under these programs has contributed significantly to its net income. Proposals have been made from time to time to curtail the Federal Government’s funding of the SBA loan programs. Any reduction in SBA funding for its loan programs could negatively effect our results of operations. 8 Risks Related to the Banking Industry: Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in the five counties in the New Jersey market and one county in Pennsylvania in which we have branches, so any decline in the economy of New Jersey or eastern Pennsylvania could have an adverse impact on us. Our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of collateral securing these loans, are impacted by economic conditions. In addition, a large portion of our income is generated from gains on the sale of SBA loans and the related servicing. Our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Although economic conditions in our primary market area are strong and have aided our recent growth, we cannot assure you that these conditions will continue to prevail. We cannot assure you that positive trends or developments discussed in this prospectus will continue or that negative trends or developments will not have a significant adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make. The risk of nonpayment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to the Company, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s allowance for loan losses was $7.6 million. The Company’s marketing focus on small to medium-size businesses may result in the assumption by the Company of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers, available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management, and periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the audit committee. A risk system, consisting of multiple grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience, and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly, and, as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. We are in competition with many other banks, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. The banking industry within the State of New Jersey is highly competitive. The Company’s principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal upon our judgment that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve small businesses in our principal market area and our ability to compete favorably for such customers. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as “home town” institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. 9 The laws that regulate our operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not our stockholders. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities, and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. We may be subject to higher operating costs as a result of government regulation. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision which is intended primarily to protect depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Company’s Bank Insurance Fund, rather than investors. Legislative and regulatory changes may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: · telecommunications; · data processing; · automation; · Internet-based banking; · telebanking; and · debit cards and so-called “smart cards.” Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments 10 