Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain Factors That May Affect Our Results of Operations While our management's long-term expectations are optimistic, we face risks or uncertainties that may affect our results of operations. The following conditions, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Decreases in Trading Volumes, Securities Prices and Commission Rates Declines in the volume of securities trading, market liquidity or commission rates generally result in lower revenues from our commission generating products. In addition, our trading commissions outside the U.S. and Canada are based on the value of transactions (rather than volume based), which would be adversely affected by securities' price declines. Our profitability would be adversely affected by a decline in trading revenues because a significant portion of our costs are fixed. For these reasons, decreases in trading volume or securities prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Over the last year, the institutional equities market in the U.S. has also experienced continued pricing pressure on commission revenues. We anticipate a continuation of the weak commission pricing environment in the immediate future. Financial Market Conditions and General Economic and Political Conditions The demand for our securities brokerage and related services is directly affected by factors such as economic and political conditions that may lead to decreased trading activity and prices in the securities markets generally. The future economic environment may be subject to periodic economic downturns, due to recessions, natural disasters, pandemics, geopolitical unrest, war, acts of terrorism or a combination of these or other factors in regions where we do business or otherwise, which could result in reduced trading volumes and prices and materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is materially affected by conditions in both domestic and foreign financial markets. Regulation General The securities markets and the brokerage industry in which we operate are subject to extensive, evolving regulation in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business. In our case, the impact of regulation extends beyond "traditional" areas of securities regulation, such as disclosure and prohibitions on fraud and manipulation by market participants, to the regulation of the structure of markets. In the future, we may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which may adversely affect our business. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes can affect our business. Regulation ATS Before Regulation ATS went into effect on April 21, 1999, we operated POSIT pursuant to a "no-action" letter from the SEC staff which stated that it would not commence an enforcement action if POSIT were operated without registering as an exchange. We are currently operating POSIT Match and POSIT Now as part of our broker-dealer operations in accordance with Regulation ATS. Accordingly, neither POSIT Match nor POSIT Now is registered with the SEC as an exchange. There can be no assurance that the SEC will not in the future seek to impose more stringent regulatory requirements on the operation of ATSs such as POSIT Match and POSIT Now. There can be no 15 assurance that Congress will not enact additional legislation applicable to alternative trading systems. In addition, certain of the securities exchanges have actively sought to have more stringent regulatory requirements imposed upon ATSs. Similarly, our non-U.S. POSIT systems are subject to various regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, changes to which can have a negative impact on each POSIT system's ability to operate. MiFID Prior to November 1, 2007, ITG operated POSIT as part of its broker operations in accordance with Standards for Alternative Trading Systems issued by the Committee of European Securities Regulators as adopted by the Irish Financial Regulator. On November 1, 2007, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ("MiFID") came into effect in Ireland, the United Kingdom and a number of other European Union member states. POSIT is now authorized by the Irish Financial Regulator as a multilateral trading facility pursuant to MiFID. In addition, ITG's brokerage operations in Europe must now be conducted in accordance with MiFID, which introduces new or amended rules in relation to trade reporting, transaction reporting, order execution, order handling, record keeping, client classification, client communication, conflict of interest management, use of dealing commission, inducements, outsourcing, risk management and marketing. The Committee of European Securities Regulators may continue to increase MiFID's scope and coverage. Failure to comply with MiFID and any amendments thereto can result in regulatory penalties and the loss of clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our performance. Net Capital Requirement Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries is subject to regulatory capital requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. The failure by any of these subsidiaries to maintain its required regulatory capital may lead to suspension or revocation of its broker-dealer registration and its suspension or expulsion by U.S. or international regulatory bodies, and ultimately could require its liquidation. Historically, all regulatory capital needs of our U.S. and International broker-dealers have been provided by cash from operations. While we believe that cash flows from operations will continue to provide our broker-dealers with sufficient regulatory capital, we have a $25 million credit facility which can be accessed to supplement our existing regulatory capital, as needed. Soft Dollars Increased scrutiny placed upon soft dollar practices in light of the recent SEC and UK Financial Services Authority attention to this area, may cause certain clients to further restrict their use of soft dollars, which could, in the aggregate, materially impact our business. In the U.S., the provision of research to investment managers in consideration of commissions is conducted in conjunction with the investment manager's reliance upon the safe harbor provided under Section 28(e) of the Exchange Act. The safe harbor protections of Section 28(e) apply equally to the provision of independent third-party research, as well as proprietary research. The SEC from time to time has been urged by our competitors and others to seek Congressional reconsideration of Section 28(e) or alter its scope, including modifying the nature of Section 28(e) from a safe harbor to a mandatory regime for the use of soft dollars applicable to all investment advisors (including those not registered with the SEC). On July 24, 2006, the SEC issued an interpretive release modifying the scope of brokerage and research services and client commission arrangements under Section 28(e) (the "SEC Interpretive Release"), which became effective on January 24, 2007. 16 In the UK, the use of soft dollars (known as "soft commissions") has been restricted via regulations and guidance issued by the national financial regulator, the Financial Services Authority ("UK FSA Regulations"). The UK FSA Regulations, effective as of January 1, 2006, restrict investment managers' use of directing commissions to the purchase of execution and research services, and further limit the type of services that may be the subject of a soft dollar arrangement. Further, investment managers in the UK, like managers in the U.S., must now give customers periodic disclosures setting out how commissions have been spent, and what services have been obtained. From time to time, other regulatory or governmental entities, as well as industry groups, have issued statements, reports and best practices regarding soft dollars. Any regulatory changes or industry best practices that narrow the definition of research or services provided in Section 28(e) and UK FSA Regulations, respectively, limit the scope, or modify the nature, of the Section 28(e) safe harbor, further restrict investment managers' use of directing commissions to the purchase of services under UK FSA Regulations or impose onerous record-keeping, reporting or other obligations regarding soft dollar and directed brokerage arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Competition The financial services industry generally, and the securities brokerage business in which we engage in particular, is extremely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. The automated trade execution and analysis services offered by us compete with services provided by leading brokerage firms, transaction processing firms, providers of electronic trading and trade order management systems, and financial information services. Our extensive suite of products does not directly compete with a particular firm, however, each of our products competes with various firms. On the pre- and post-trade side, our products compete with several broker dealer-affiliated and independent companies. On the execution side, our POSIT suite competes with various national and regional securities exchanges and execution facilities, ATSs and ECNs for trade execution services. There has been a recent proliferation of ATSs in the U.S. market. These include traditional ATSs, as well as sell side consortiums and exchange-sponsored crossing systems. In addition, the number of direct market access and algorithmic trading products that compete with our suite of products offered as ITG Algorithms, continues to increase. Lastly, our front-end trading systems, XIP, Triton, Radical and ITG Matrix compete with an array of order and execution management vendors, most of which are not affiliated with broker-dealers, which may be a factor for customers when choosing order and execution management systems. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources which, among other things, enable them to compete with the services we provide on the basis of price, and a willingness to commit their firms' capital to service a client's trading needs on a principal, rather than on an agency, basis. Many of them offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Outside the U.S., some of our competitors have long-standing, well-established relationships with their clients, and also hold dominant positions in their trading markets. We believe that our services compete on the basis of access to liquidity, transaction cost and market impact cost reduction, timeliness of execution and probability of trade completion. Although we believe that our products and services have established certain competitive advantages, our ability to maintain these advantages will require continued enhancements to our products, investment in the development of our services, additional marketing activities and customer support services. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make this investment, that our competitors will not devote significantly more resources to competing services or that we will otherwise be successful in maintaining our market position. Clearance and Settlement Risk In May 2007, our U.S. brokerage operations became a self-clearing broker-dealer. As a clearing member firm in the U.S., Hong Kong and Australia, we have to finance our clients' unsettled positions 17 from time to time and we could be held responsible for the defaults of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposure, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that may be difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect ITG. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk from third parties that owe us money, securities, or other obligations, including our customers and trading counterparties. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Substantially all of the clearing and depository operations for our broker-dealer subsidiaries are performed pursuant to clearing agreements with their clearing brokers, who review the credit risk of trading counterparties, as deemed necessary. Volatile securities markets, credit markets and regulatory changes increase our exposure to our customer's credit profiles, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Interlisted Arbitrage Trading A portion of our Canadian revenues is derived from U.S.- Canada interlisted arbitrage trading in which we act as principal. As a result of this trading, we may incur losses relating to the purchase or sale of interlisted securities for our own account. Although we attempt to close out all of our arbitrage positions immediately, if for any reason we are unable to do so, we bear the risk of market fluctuations and may incur losses due to changes in the prices of such securities. Rapid Changes in Technology Due to the high demand for technology-based services in the securities industry, we are subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Also, customer demands become greater and more sophisticated as the dissemination of information to customers increases. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner and to adapt to the technological advancements and changing standards, we will be less able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the development of technology-based services is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could negatively impact our revenues. Insufficient System Capacity or System Failures Our business relies heavily on the computer and communications systems supporting our operations. Moreover, our corporate headquarters and largest concentration of employees and technology is in the New York metropolitan area. If a business system disruption were to occur, especially in New York, or we were unable to execute our contingency plans, it could have a material effect on our business. Peak trading times and times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even fail for periods of time, as could general power or telecommunications failures, natural disasters or other business disruptions, despite the contingency plans we have in place. Moreover, we have varying levels of contingency plan coverage among our non-U.S. subsidiaries. The presence of computer viruses can also cause failure of our systems. As our business expands, we will need to expand our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions across a larger client base and more geographical locations. If any of our systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could incur financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. System failure or degradation could lead our customers to file 18 formal complaints with industry regulatory organizations, initiate regulatory inquiries or proceedings, file lawsuits against us, trade less frequently through us or cease doing business with us. Investment in Infrastructure and Research In connection with our research and product development activities, as well as capital expenditures to improve other aspects of our business, we incur substantial expenses that do not vary directly, at least in the short term, with fluctuations in securities transaction volumes and revenues. To ensure that we have the capacity to process projected increases in transaction volumes, we have historically made substantial capital, operating and research expenditures in advance of such projected increases, including during periods of low transaction volumes. In the event of a material reduction in trading volumes and/or revenues, we may not be able to reduce such expenses quickly and, as a result, we could experience reduced profitability or losses. In the event that such predicted growth in transaction volumes does not occur or we are not able to successfully implement and monetize our capital and research projects, including by failing to accurately forecast the demand for new products, the expenses related to such investments could cause reduced profitability or losses. Dependence on Major Customers Our customers may discontinue use of our trading services at any time. The loss of any significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The chart below sets forth our dependence on our three largest clients individually, as well as on our ten largest clients in the aggregate, expressed as a percentage of total revenues: % of Total Consolidated Revenue 2007 2006 2005 Largest customer 6.1 % 3.2 % 6.6 % Second largest customer 3.6 % 2.0 % 2.7 % Third largest customer 2.3 % 1.9 % 2.6 % Ten largest customers 24.5 % 16.9 % 25.2 % Employee Misconduct or Errors Employee misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. Such misconduct could result in losses, litigation or other material adverse effects on the Company. Similarly, employee errors in recording or executing transactions for customers can cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle. These transactions expose us to risk of loss, which can be material, until we detect the errors in question and unwind or reverse the transactions. As with any unsettled transaction, adverse movements in the prices of the securities involved in these transactions before we unwind or reverse them can increase this risk. Dependence on Third Party Suppliers for Key Services We depend on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading systems, computers, market data, communication infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. We cannot be certain that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient and cost-effective manner or that they will be able to meet our expanding needs. If our suppliers fail to meet their obligations and we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the 19 supply of these services, we may fail, in turn, to meet our obligations to our customers and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Dependence on Proprietary Intellectual Property Our success is dependent, in part, upon our proprietary intellectual property. We generally rely upon patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to establish and protect our rights in our proprietary technology, methods, products and services. We cannot assure that any of the rights granted under any patent, copyright or trademark that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages. A third party may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent the protective mechanisms that we select. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that we will be able to ensure our proprietary intellectual property from improper disclosure or that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Violations of our intellectual property by third parties could have an adverse effect on our competitiveness, Risks of Infringement In the past several years, there has been a proliferation of patents applicable to the computer and financial services industries. Under current law, U.S. patent applications remain secret for 18 months and may, depending upon where else such applications are filed, remain secret until issuance of a patent. In light of these factors, it is not always possible to determine in advance whether any of our products or services may infringe the present or future patent rights of others. We believe that factors such as technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a state-of-the-art technological system. It is likely that from time to time, we will receive notices from others of claims or potential claims of intellectual property infringement or we may be called upon to defend a joint venture partner, customer, vendee or licensee against such third party claims. Responding to these kinds of claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Responding to these claims could also require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement on terms that could have a material impact on our profitability. Acquisitions and Strategic Relationships Over the last several years, we have undertaken several strategic acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Macgregor, Plexus and RedSky, as well as various strategic relationships. We intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and strategic relationships. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including but not limited to difficulties in valuing the acquired businesses, difficulties in integrating acquired products and services, operations and personnel, potential assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies and potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies. Strategic relationships may be important to our business prospects and we may not be able to successfully develop or maintain such relationships. If we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions and integrate the acquired businesses, suffer a material loss due to an acquired business or fail to develop or maintain strategic relationships, it may have a material effect on our operating results. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 