Item 1A. Risk Factors I. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE. If the future clinical study of GCS-100 is unsuccessful, we will likely be forced to liquidate the Company. As part of the Amendment Agreement, on the first anniversary of the asset purchase agreement (i.e., January 19, 2013), the holders of Series C-12 Stock may elect to redeem a number of shares of Series C-12 Stock equal to the lesser of (i) the entire balance of the outstanding Series C-12 Stock, and (ii) 2,900 shares of Series C-12 Stock. Although we do not expect that these stockholders will demand redemption prior to the completion of the future clinical study, it is possible for them to do so. If the Company is required to redeem the Series C-12 Stock, we would have very limited financial resources remaining and will likely be forced to liquidate the Company. Additionally, in that circumstance, we expect that Solana would exercise its repurchase right, which means that we would lose the rights to the GCS-100 compound and receive only nominal consideration upon Solana’s reacquisition of the compound. We have only limited assets and we have limits under our charter on our ability to fully spend the cash assets that we currently have. As of December 31, 2011, we had no revenue sources, an accumulated deficit of $439.6 million and available cash and cash equivalents of $5.0 million, of which, at that time, up to $5.0 million could be required to be paid upon the triggering of a redemption right under our outstanding Series C-12 Stock including accrued dividends. Although we acquired the GCS-100 patent estate in January 2012 for nominal consideration and we retain the rights (to the extent not forfeited) to the Riquent patent estate, the values of these assets are highly uncertain and Riquent has been written down under United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) to nearly zero. As a result, we have only limited assets available to operate and develop our business. We are utilizing a portion of our existing cash balances to conduct future clinical study of GCS-100 and to evaluate whether or not GCS-100 should be developed further. If we determine that GCS-100 does not warrant further development and the investors redeem their C-12 Stock, we would have only limited cash and would likely be forced to liquidate the Company. In that event, the funds resulting from the liquidation of our assets, net of amounts payable, would likely return only a small amount, if anything, to our stockholders. Additionally, the Series C/D Certificate contains a term that, for a period of one year, purports to render ultra vires any transaction in which the Company causes its net cash balance to fall below $2.9 million. Thus, if the Company authorizes any expenditure or enters into any contract whereby the Company’s cash balance falls below this threshold, it is possible that a court could find that the Company did not have the requisite corporate authority to take such action. Accordingly, the Company intends to limit its overall expenditures through February 2013 so that it maintains this minimum balance. As a result, the Company effectively had only $1.9 million available for the maintenance of operations and development of GCS-100 for the period of February 2012 through February 2013, notwithstanding the working capital appearing on the Company’s balance sheet at that time. The technology underlying GCS-100 is uncertain and unproven. The development efforts for the GCS-100 technology are based on unproven technologies and therapeutic approaches that have not been widely tested or used. To date, no products that use the GCS-100 technology have been approved or commercialized. Application of our technology to treat cancer is in early stages. Preclinical studies and future clinical trials of GCS-100 may be viewed as a test of our entire approach to developing cancer therapeutics. If GCS-100 does not work as intended, or if the data from our future clinical study indicates that GCS-100 is not safe and effective, the applicability of our technology for successfully treating cancer will be highly uncertain. As a result, there is a significant risk that our therapeutic approaches will not prove to be successful, and there can be no guarantee that our drug technologies will result in any commercially successful products. 6 Table of Contents We have recently experienced significant turnover in senior management. Recently, we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management team, including the departures of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and all three members of our board of directors. As a result of these changes, we have a new management team and board of directors. It is not yet possible to assess how effective this new management team will be or whether the board will be able to work together to accomplish the Company’s business objectives. Additionally, changes in management are disruptive to the organization and any further changes, which will be necessary as the Company grows and needs to add additional members to the management team, may slow the Company’s progress toward its goals. Changes in composition of our board of directors may also be disruptive and the loss of the experience and capabilities of any of our board members may reduce the effectiveness of the board. We have a small management team and are highly dependent on the services of George Tidmarsh, our Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, we will face challenges in growing our headcount over time. We have only one officer, George Tidmarsh, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer and as our principal financial officer. Dr. Tidmarsh is responsible for planning the development of our upcoming Phase 2a clinical study of GCS-100 and oversees all aspects of our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the services of Dr. Tidmarsh and, if we lost his services, our ability to continue the development of GCS-100 within the time periods and budgets we have planned would be severely compromised. Additionally, if we are successful in developing GCS-100, we will need to hire additional employees to support expanded operations. The industry in which we compete has a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled employees. This type of environment creates intense competition for qualified personnel, particularly in clinical and regulatory affairs, sales and marketing and accounting and finance. We may not be successful attracting or retaining additional employees, which could limit our ability to grow and successfully manage our business over time. Our ability to raise additional capital and enter into strategic transactions requires the approval of our preferred stockholders. The terms of the Series C/D Certificate impose certain restrictions on the Company and our ability to engage in selected actions that may be out of the ordinary course of business. For example, the Series C/D Certificate provides that without the approval by at least 80% of the then outstanding preferred stockholders, the Company may not: issue capital stock; enter into a definitive agreement that, if consummated, would effect a change of control; amend its certificate of incorporation; or take corporate action that, if consummated, would represent a strategic transaction. Additionally, the Company may not, until after February 2013, incur expenditures that would cause the Company’s cash balances to fall below $2.9 million. Accordingly, even if we identify an opportunity to further develop GCS-100 or another drug candidate, our ability to enter into an appropriate arrangement to continue our operations may be more difficult than in the absence of these restrictions. We may be prohibited from developing a partnership to further develop GCS-100, or entering into an agreement to acquire rights to another drug candidate for development if we do not receive approval from the requisite investors. If we cannot develop a product candidate, our resources will continue to be depleted and our ability to continue operations will be adversely affected. Our financial reporting is complicated and may confuse investors. The securities we issued in the May 2010 financing have certain features that result in mark-to-market accounting under FASB Topic of Derivatives and Hedging. These accounting rules require that our derivative instruments be adjusted to their fair market values at each reporting date. The fair market values are based on option pricing models and require various inputs, including our stock price, which may change from period to period. Changes in these inputs, such as increases or decreases in our stock price, will change the value of the derivative instruments, which means that we will likely report significant non-cash gains or losses in future periods. These gains and losses can be very substantial each period and may result in significant period-over-period swings in our GAAP operating results. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a non-cash net loss on the fair value of our derivative instruments of approximately $9.5 million. As a result, investors are cautioned to carefully read our financial statements, the notes thereto and the Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a more complete understanding of our operating results. Prior results may not be indicative of future results and periods reflecting significant non-cash income under these accounting rules would not correspond to significant positive cash flows that investors may normally expect. 7 Table of Contents Results from any future clinical trials we may undertake may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approvals to market our drug candidates in the United States or other countries on a timely basis, if at all. Drug candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. In order to sell any product that is under development, we must first receive regulatory approval. To obtain regulatory approval, we must conduct clinical trials and toxicology studies that demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe and effective. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may not agree that we have demonstrated that our drug candidates are safe and effective. If our drug candidates are ultimately not found to be safe and effective, we would be unable to obtain regulatory approval to manufacture, market and sell them. We can provide no assurances that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will approve GCS-100 or, if approved, what the approved indication for GCS-100 might be. Future clinical trials that we may undertake may be delayed or halted. Any clinical trials of our drug candidates that we may conduct in the future may be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: • we do not have sufficient financial resources; • supplies of drug product are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; • patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect; • the products are not effective; • patients experience negative side effects or other safety concerns are raised during treatment; • the trials are not conducted in accordance with applicable clinical practices; • there is political unrest at foreign clinical sites; or • there are natural disasters at any of our clinical sites. If any future trials are delayed or halted, we may incur significant additional expenses, and our potential approval of our drug candidates may be delayed, which could have a severe negative effect on our business. If the third party manufacturers upon which we rely fail to produce our drug candidates that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our drug candidates. We do not manufacture our drug candidates and we do not plan to develop any capacity to do so. We plan to contract with third-party manufacturers to manufacture GCS-100. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production which include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. The third-party manufacturers we may contract with may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. 8 Table of Contents In addition to product approval, any facility in which GCS-100 is manufactured or tested for its ability to meet required specifications must be approved by the FDA and/or the EMA before a commercial product can be manufactured. Failure of such a facility to be approved could delay the approval of GCS-100. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend any future clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of GCS-100, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize products. Our success in developing and marketing our drug candidates depends significantly on our ability to obtain patent protection. In addition, we will need to successfully preserve our trade secrets and operate without infringing on the rights of others. We depend on patents and other unpatented intellectual property to prevent others from improperly benefiting from products or technologies that we may have developed or acquired. Our patents and patent applications cover various technologies and drug candidates, including GCS-100. There can be no assurance, however, that any additional patents will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will be sufficient to protect us or our technology, or that any current or future issued patent will be held valid if subsequently challenged. There is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office that may delay the review and issuance of any patents. The patent position of biotechnology firms like ours is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions, and no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims covered in biotechnology patents or the protection afforded by these patents. Additionally, a recent U.S. Supreme Court opinion further limits the scope of patentable inventions in the life sciences space and has added increased uncertainty around the validity of certain patents that have been issued and the patentability of certain pending patent applications. We intend to continue to file patent applications as believed appropriate for patents covering both our products and processes. However, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from any of these applications, or that the scope of any issued patents will protect our technology. We do not necessarily know if others, including competitors, have patents or patent applications pending that relate to compounds or processes that overlap or compete with our intellectual property or which may affect our freedom to operate. However, there can be no assurance that patents will not ultimately be found to impact the advancement of our drug candidates, including GCS-100. If the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any foreign counterpart issues or has issued patents containing competitive or conflicting claims, and if these claims are valid, the protection provided by our existing patents or any future patents that may be issued could be significantly reduced, and our ability to prevent competitors from developing products or technologies identical or similar to ours could be negatively affected. In addition, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to obtain licenses to these patents on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our failure to obtain a license to a technology or process that may be required to develop or commercialize one or more of our drug candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may have to incur significant expense and management time in defending or enforcing our patents. We also rely on unpatented intellectual property such as trade secrets and improvements, know-how, and continuing technological innovation. While we seek to protect these rights, it is possible that: • others, including competitors, will develop inventions relevant to our business; • our confidentiality agreements will be breached, and we may not have, or be successful in obtaining, adequate remedies for such a breach; or • our trade secrets will otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. 9 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs and devote substantial management time in defending suits that others might bring against us for infringement of intellectual property rights or in prosecuting suits that we might bring against others to protect our intellectual property rights. Because a number of companies compete with us, many of which have greater resources than we do, and because we face rapid changes in technology in our industry, we cannot be certain that our products will be accepted in the marketplace or capture market share. Competition from domestic and foreign biotechnology companies, large pharmaceutical companies and other institutions is intense and is expected to increase. A number of companies and institutions are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals in our targeted areas. Many of these companies are very large, and have financial, technical, sales and distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. The greater resources of these competitors could enable them to develop competing products more quickly than we are able to, and to market any competing product more quickly or effectively so as to make it extremely difficult for us to develop a share of the market for our products. These competitors also include companies that are conducting clinical trials and pre-clinical studies in the field of cancer therapeutics. Our competitors may develop or obtain regulatory approval for products more rapidly than we do. Also, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid changes in technology. Our competitors may develop and market technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than those we are developing, or that would render our technology and proposed products obsolete or noncompetitive. II. RISK FACTORS RELATED SPECIFICALLY TO OUR STOCK. We currently have 5.5 million shares of common stock outstanding and currently may be required to issue up to 6.7 billion shares of common stock upon conversion of existing preferred stock and preferred stock warrants. Such an issuance would be significantly dilutive to our existing common stockholders. Upon the closing of the May 2010 financing, the Company issued to investors approximately 5,134 shares of Series C-12 Preferred. In light of the conversion ratio of our preferred stock (213,083 shares of common stock underlying every one share of Series C-12 Preferred), the issuance of such a large number of preferred shares diluted the ownership of our existing stockholders and provided the new investors with a sizeable interest in the Company. These investors also received warrants to purchase shares of other series of preferred stock that may also be converted into common stock at a rate of 213,083 shares of common stock for every share of preferred stock held. Giving effect to the potential exercise of the outstanding preferred warrants, and assuming the conversion of all preferred stock into common stock at the current conversion rate, we would have approximately 6.7 billion shares of common stock issued and outstanding, although the issuance of the common stock upon the conversion of our preferred stock is limited by a 9.999% beneficial ownership cap for each preferred stockholder. With approximately 5.5 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of the date of this report, the issuance of this number of shares of common stock underlying the preferred stock would represent approximately 99% dilution to our existing stockholders. It is possible that our current stock price does not reflect our fully-diluted and as-converted capital structure, which means that the conversion of preferred stock into common stock could significantly reduce our stock price. Future adjustments to the conversion prices of our convertible securities may result in further dilution of our stockholders’ ownership upon conversion of such securities. The conversion price for the 2012 New Preferred Stock was automatically adjusted downward following the 2012 Reverse Stock Split because the average of the closing sales prices following the stock split was less than ten times the split-adjusted conversion price. Accordingly, the conversion price of the 2012 New Preferred Stock was reduced to a price equal to 10% of the average stock price at that time. Effective on March 3, 2012, each share of 2012 New Preferred Stock became convertible into approximately 213,083 shares of common stock; prior to that date, each share of 2012 New Preferred Stock was convertible into approximately 1,667 shares of common stock. 10 Table of Contents The conversion price of our outstanding preferred stock has a “full ratchet” anti-dilution adjustment, which means that it will be further reduced if we issue additional shares of common stock, or common stock equivalents, for consideration that is less than the then applicable conversion price, or if the conversion or exercise price of any common stock equivalent is adjusted or modified to a price less than the then applicable conversion price. If such adjustments occur, our outstanding preferred stock will be convertible into a greater number of shares and our current stockholders’ ownership holdings will be further diluted upon conversion of such preferred stock into common stock. The delisting of our common stock could have a substantial effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. On March 4, 2010, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and we began trading on The Pink OTC Markets, Inc. and have since moved to The OTC Bulletin Board (the “OTC BB”). As a result of trading on the OTC BB, the market liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected as certain investors may not trade in securities that are quoted on the OTC BB due to considerations including low price, illiquidity, and the absence of qualitative and quantitative listing standards. For example, since being delisted from Nasdaq, we are no longer subject to the Nasdaq listing standards, which included, among other things, that we seek stockholder approval for certain extraordinary transactions, such as the issuance of more than 20% of our common stock at a price that is below market. Accordingly, we are no longer required to obtain stockholder approval for such transactions and may, under Delaware corporate law, effect transactions such as this without prior notice and without stockholder approval. In addition, our stockholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares may be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors may contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price for our common stock. Specifically, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for such shares or at all. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. The price of our common stock has been, and will be, volatile and may continue to decline. Our stock has historically experienced significant price and volume volatility and could continue to be volatile. Market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities: • significant conversions of preferred stock into common stock and sales of these shares; • results from our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • limited financial resources; • announcements regarding financings, mergers or other strategic transactions; • future sales of significant amounts of our capital stock by us or our stockholders; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; and • general market conditions and comments by securities analysts. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and does not qualify for exemption from the “penny stock” restrictions, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” by the SEC and is subject to rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” The SEC has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, these rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about current quotations for the securities and about commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative. Finally, broker-dealers must send monthly statements to purchasers of penny stocks disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. As a result of our shares of common stock being subject to the rules on penny stocks, the liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 