Item 1A. Risk Factors: Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading prices of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions including the following: Risks affecting Our Business: The nationwide recession may adversely affect our business by reducing real estate values in our trade area and stressing the ability of our customers to repay their loans. Our New Jersey trade area, like the rest of the United States, is currently experiencing economic contraction. As a result, many companies have experienced reduced revenues and have laid off employees. These factors have stressed the ability of both commercial and consumer customers to repay their loans, and have, and may in the future, result in higher levels of nonaccrual loans. In addition, real estate values have declined in our trade area. Since the majority of our loans are secured by real estate, declines in the market value of real estate impact the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could lead to greater losses in the event of defaults on loans secured by real estate. We have a significant level of nonperforming assets, and this has, and will continue, to affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2010, our total nonperforming assets equaled $24.0 million or 3.88 percent of total loans and OREO. This is a significant level of nonperforming assets compared to our peer group institutions. Our level of nonperforming assets reflects the general economic slowdown in our marketplace and its effect on our borrowers, and our focus on SBA lending, which may entail greater credit risk than other types of lending. This deterioration in credit quality has negatively impacted our results of operations, through additional provisions for loan losses and reduced interest income, and will continue to impact our performance until these assets are resolved. In addition, future increases in our nonperforming assets will further negatively affect our results of operations. We can give you no assurance that our nonperforming assets will not increase further. We are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance; in addition, dislocation and volatility in the credit markets may negatively affect the value of our assets. Beginning in mid 2008, there has been significant turmoil and volatility in global financial markets. Nationally, we have seen economic factors such as a recession, a rise in unemployment, and a weakened U.S. dollar. Recent market uncertainty regarding the financial sector has increased. In addition to the impact on the economy, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve, or in valuations in the debt or equity markets or disruptions in the liquidity or other functioning of financial markets, all of which have been seen recently, could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: · Net interest income, the difference between interest earned on our interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, represents a significant portion of our earnings. Both increases and decreases in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the spread between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. The net interest spread is affected by the differences between the maturity and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-earning assets may not reprice as slowly or rapidly as our interest-bearing liabilities. · The market value of our securities portfolio may decline and result in other-than-temporary charges or realized losses on the sale of securities. The value of securities in our portfolio are affected by factors that impact the U.S. securities markets in general as well specific financial sector factors such as the deterioration of the credit worthiness of issuers. Further declines in these sectors may result in future other-than-temporary impairment charges and/or realized losses on the sale of securities. · Asset quality may deteriorate as borrowers become unable to repay their loans. · Lack of liquidity within the capital markets which we use to raise funds to support our business transactions may impact the cost of funds or our ability to raise funds. Page 8 Our business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees and manage our expenses. We expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations ; and, correspondingly, in the number of our employees and customers. We may not be able to successfully manage our business as a result of the strain on our management and operations that may result from this growth. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our ability to attract and retain senior management may be adversely affected by the restrictions imposed upon us under the CPP, as revised by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. Curtailment of the Small Business Administration loan program could negatively affect the Company; the absence of a secondary market for SBA loans could negatively affect our operation. The Company has historically been a participant in various SBA lending programs, and the Company’s activity under these programs has contributed significantly to its net income. Proposals have been made from time to time to curtail the Federal Government’s funding of the SBA loan programs. Any reduction in SBA funding for its loan programs could negatively affect our results of operations. There is a risk that the SBA will not honor their guarantee. The Company has historically been a participant in various SBA lending programs which guarantee up to 90% of the principal on the underlying loan. There is a risk that the SBA will not honor their guarantee if a loan is not underwritten to SBA guidelines. The Company follows the underwriting guidelines of the SBA, however our ability to manage this will depend on our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees who have knowledge of the SBA program. Our ability to earn significant noninterest income from the sale of SBA loans into the secondary market has been negatively impacted by current market conditions affecting the secondary market for SBA loans. Historically, the Company has earned significant noninterest income from the sale into the secondary market of substantially all of the guaranteed portion of its loans originated under the SBA’s loan programs. However, starting in the fall of 2008, the secondary market for SBA loans lost liquidity, and SBA loan program participants like the Company have had difficulty selling SBA loans in the secondary market. In order to manage our capital levels, and in order to avoid holding a significant amount of these SBA loans in our portfolio, we have elected to substantially curtail our participation in SBA lending programs, closing our loan origination operations outside of our New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania primary trade areas and only offering SBA loan products as an adjunct to community banking business. As a result, our noninterest income has substantially declined, and will not likely return to historic levels. Risks Related to the Banking Industry: The banking business is subject to significant government regulations. We are subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and may require substantial modifications to our operations or may cause us to incur substantial additional compliance costs. In addition, future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the commercial banking industry and our operations. Such governing laws can be anticipated to continue to be the subject of future modification. Our management cannot predict what effect any such future modifications will have on our operations. In addition, the primary focus of Federal and state banking regulation is the protection of depositors and not the shareholders of the regulated institutions. For example, the recently adopted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will result in substantial new compliance costs, and may restrict certain sources of revenue. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Generally, the Act is effective the day after it was signed into law, but different effective dates apply to specific sections of the law, many of which will not become effective until various Federal regulatory agencies have promulgated rules implementing the statutory provisions. Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: · Directs the Federal Reserve to issue rules which are expected to limit debit-card interchange fees; · Provides for an increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, increases in the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35% and changes the basis for determining FDIC premiums from deposits to assets; · Permanently increases the deposit insurance coverage to $250 thousand and allows depository institutions to pay interest on checking accounts; Page 9 · Creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that would apply to all banks and would have broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws; · Provides for new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance; · Changes standards for Federal preemption of state laws related to federally chartered institutions and their subsidiaries; · Provides mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and · Creates a financial stability oversight council that will recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in the six counties in the New Jersey market and one county in Pennsylvania in which we have branches, so any decline in the economy of New Jersey or eastern Pennsylvania could have an adverse impact on us. Our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of collateral securing these loans are impacted by economic conditions. Our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Although economic conditions in our primary market have fared better than other areas of the United States, we cannot assure you that these conditions will continue to prevail. We cannot assure you that positive trends or developments discussed in this annual report will continue or that negative trends or developments will not have a significant adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make. The risk of nonpayment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such nonpayment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to the Company, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s allowance for loan losses was $14.4 million, or 2.33% of our total loan portfolio and 66.3% of our nonperforming assets. The Company’s marketing focus on small to medium size businesses may result in the assumption by the Company of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers’ available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management; and, periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the Audit Committee. A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and, as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. Page 10 We are in competition with many other banks, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. The banking industry within the State of New Jersey is highly competitive. The Company’s principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal upon our judgment that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve small businesses in our principal market area and upon our ability to compete favorably for such customers. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as “hometown” institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. The laws that regulate our operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not our stockholders. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. We may be subject to higher operating costs as a result of government regulation. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision which are intended primarily to protect depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than investors. Legislative and regulatory changes may increase our costs of doing business; or, otherwise, adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: · telecommunications; · data processing; · automation; · Internet-based banking; · Tele-banking; and · debit cards and so-called "smart cards." Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies, we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Page 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 