D. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our share price may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks General Risks Factors Relating to Our Company This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. We have a history of net losses With the exception of the years 2006 and 2003, we have incurred a net loss in each year of our existence. Our net profits in 2006 were $1.2 million and were principally from continuing operations of $0.3 million and other income of $1.3 million off-set by impairment of long lived assets of $0.4 million. Our net profits in 2003 of $5.3 million resulted from a one-time non-cash capital gain of $8.5 million from the disposal of discontinued operations and were offset by a $3.3 million loss from continuing operations. Prior to 2004, our majority owned subsidiary, Shagrir Systems Ltd. (formerly Shagrir Motor Vehicle Systems Ltd.), or Shagrir, had never recorded net profits but has recorded shareholders’ equity surplus for the first time in 2006. Although our company as well as Shagrir are currently profitable we may continue to sustain net losses for the foreseeable future, for several reasons, including resulting from increases in working capital deficiency (see Item 4 “Recent Developments”) and costs associated with other business initiatives in Israel and abroad. As a part of our strategy, we are focusing on the development of new businesses and services, both in the territories in which we currently operate as well as in new territories. Investing in such new businesses may result in an increase in short term losses. If we continue to sustain prolonged net losses or losses from continuing operations, we may have to cease our operations. 6 The majority of our business operations are based in Israel Due to our purchase of Shagrir in 2004 and the acquisition of the business activities of Shagrir Towing Services acquired by Shagrir in February 2005, the majority of our operations are located in Israel, and Shagrir accounts for the majority of our revenues. Consequently, certain events in Israel which may or may not be directly connected with our business may have a disproportionate effect on our operations. For instance, major public transportation projects, changes in vehicle related taxes, a proposed increase in the imputed value of vehicles provided as a part of employee compensation and other macroeconomic changes in Israel may reduce the number of vehicle owners. Although to date we have not seen a drop in private vehicle users as a result of such factors, current projects including high-speed rail systems could lead to such a drop in the future, thereby reducing the volume of our operations in Israel. We also rely on the renewal and retention of several operating licenses issued by certain Israeli regulatory authorities. Should such authorities fail to renew any of these licenses, suspend existing licenses, or require additional licenses, we may be forced to suspend or cease certain services that we provide. Additionally, a sustained downturn in the Israeli economy could have a significant impact on our business. Our future operations depend on our ability to obtain additional financing We have historically financed our operations through public and private placements of equity and debt securities, cash generated from the sales of our systems, grants for research and development projects and bank credit lines. We believe that our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and outstanding bank credit lines, will sufficiently allow us to continue our operations as a going concern for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot assure that if we are required to raise additional financing in the future that we will be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, if at all, and if we are able to raise financing through the issuance of shares, this may result in the dilution of the interests of our current shareholders. In a series of investments, since March 2003 to date, we raised $35 million, and in February 2005 our subsidiary Shagrir received approximately NIS 200 million in loans and convertible debt as part of Shagrir’s acquisition of the road-side assistance and towing services of Shagrir Towing Services. In June 2004, as part of the purchase of all of the securities of Shagrir not already held by our Company at such time, we issued further shares and warrants to purchase our shares (for further information regarding agreements relating to the acquisition of the road-side assistance and towing services of Shagrir Towing Services, see Item 4 – Recent Developments and Item 10 – Material Contracts). We have registered for resale securities issued and issuable in connection with these transactions and as a result we currently have outstanding effective registration statements covering 1,824,754 of our securities (for further information regarding the private placement transactions see Item 10 – Material Contracts). We are currently filing a registration statement on form F-3, pursuant to an investment with a group of U.S. institutional investors consummated in April 2007, covering 1,207,500 of our ordinary shares (including 402,500 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants issued in connection with that transaction). As a result of the registration statements that we currently have outstanding and are currently filing, many or all of our investors who recently purchased our securities may elect to sell some or all of our securities. Should such sales be significant in volume or take place over a short period of time, our share price may decline significantly, and we may find it difficult to raise additional funding through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities. If our future capital requirements are greater than the cash we obtain from our business and available financing, if any, we may, among other things, be required to significantly reduce our research, development, product commercialization, marketing or other activities or even cease operations. Over recent years, the securities markets in general have experienced increased volatility, which has particularly affected the securities and operations of many companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies, they may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities markets in general may affect our ability to obtain additional financing at favorable terms. 7 Shagrir has significant loans which it is required to repay in accordance with a strict schedule In order to finance Shagrir’s acquisition of the road-side assistance and towing services of Shagrir Towing Services, it received a NIS 100 million credit facility from Bank Hapoalim, a NIS 40 million loan from Shagrir Towing Services and approximately NIS 50 million was loaned to it from a group of investors led by Gandyr Investments Ltd. and Egged Holdings Ltd., of which NIS 87 million as of March 31, 2007 remained payable. Nevertheless, Shagrir still has substantial outstanding loans and, despite the fact that we are cash positive, should Shagrir fail to repay the loans in accordance with the repayment schedule pertaining to each loan or should a lender refuse to amend the relevant repayment schedule, such lender may realize certain liens that were created in its favor by Shagrir. This could result in Shagrir having to divest itself of parts of its business and may result in the cessation of its operations. This may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. For further information on these loans, see Item 4 – Recent Developments and Item 10 – Material Contracts. We may not be able to successfully compete in the extremely competitive markets for our products and services We face intense competition in the markets in which we operate. In Israel, our primary competitors are Drachim Road Side & Towing Services Ltd., Femi Premium Ltd. and Shlomo-SIXT Road Side Services & Garages Ltd., all of which mainly compete with us in providing road-side assistance and towing services although we currently are the leading road-side assistance and towing service provider in Israel. Ituran Location & Control Ltd. is our main direct competitor in the stolen vehicle retrieval services market in Israel and Argentina. LoJack - Car Security S.A. and LoJack de Mexico, S. de RL de CV are our main competitors in Argentina and Mexico, respectively. In other countries in which we intend to provide road-side assistance, towing and other services, our main competition is from local companies as well as large international corporations with local operations. Our primary competitors in the other geographical markets in which we currently provide our location based services are mainly LoJack globally, Ituran in Argentina and other local service providers in each country. Such competitors use different technologies such as radio technologies, cellular and other technologies. Should any of our competitors in Israel or globally successfully provide a broader, more efficient or attractive combination of services to insurance companies and automobile owners, our business results could be materially adversely affected. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and significant research and development staffs, facilities, marketing and distribution networks, name recognition and extensive customer bases. While we plan to continue to improve our services and maintain our marketing efforts, we cannot guarantee that we will grow or even maintain our customer base or we may need to invest more in our efforts to do so. We depend on a small number of customers We depend on a small number of customers located mainly in Israel and South America, for a significant part of our revenues, and our future depends on our ability to maintain our existing customers and attract new customers. As a result of our acquisition of the activities of Shagrir Towing Services, the customers which account for a major part of our revenues in future years are Israeli insurance companies, which offer our road-side assistance and towing services as part of their vehicle insurance policy packages which they sell to their customers. While in 2006 only one customer comprised over 10% of our revenues, since our business model relies on a relatively low number of customers the loss of even a small number of customers could materially affect our financial condition. 8 If the creditworthiness or the financial strength of the customers were to decline, there could be an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Should geopolitical situations change in the countries where our customers operate, there could be additional credit risks. In cases where our customer is the operator (not owned by us), we use several methods in order to assure collectibility. In most cases, we demand financial guarantees such as a Letter of Credit or payments before delivery. To a lesser extent we assess collectibility, by assessing the credit history for each customer on a case-by-case basis and investigating the financial capabilities of our customers by receiving on-going information on their business status. However, we cannot be certain that our estimations will prove correct as to any one of our customers. We rely on operators to provide services for our Location Based Solution systems In certain countries we rely on third party operators and police forces to provide our stolen vehicle retrieval services. This requires us to maintain good relationships with these third party operators to ensure that they continue to work with us and provide a good service to our customers. Since we do not own these operators, we have little or no control over their effectiveness or methods of operation. The implementation of the operators’ business plans depends mainly on factors unrelated to our interests such as their marketing strategies, their financial stability and the specific requirements and circumstances in their territories. Our consecutive end unit sales, future system upgrades, future infrastructure extensions and revenues from other sources, where applicable, from such territories is dependent on their penetration rate and successful sale growth as well as on the operators’ continuous success and their continuous decision to offer these services and products in their respective territories. Should we fail to maintain relationships with these third party operators, or these operators fail to successfully market and service our products, our business would be adversely affected. We use fixed price contracts with our customers Our road-side services in Israel are sold through annual fixed price contracts, according to which we are paid a fixed price by insurance companies for each of their customers who subscribe to receive our services. Should operational expenses rise due to factors such as a rise in the price of gasoline or any other materials necessary for our operations, our profit margins could suffer as a result. Since it is often difficult to predict future price rises in the cost of raw materials, our fixed price contracts may not adequately cover our future outlays. Additionally, the frequency by which vehicle users may take advantage of our road-side services can vary unpredictably. Sustained adverse weather conditions, increased regional hostilities or acts of terrorism, and poor road maintenance may increase customer usage of our services in any given year, thus reducing profit margins. The majority of our SVR services in Israel are linked to the US Dollar while operational expenses, like salary, are linked to NIS. Our profit margins could suffer as a result of revaluation of the NIS against the US Dollar. Since it is often difficult to predict future exchange rates our fixed price contracts may not adequately cover our future outlays and reduce profit margins (for further information on exchange rate risk see item 5 – Impact of Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets). We rely on a single-source supplier to manufacture end units for our Locations Based Solution systems While we have commenced diversifying our product base through our combination of cellular units together with GPS devices in our location based services, we are still principally reliant on our traditional Pointerware suite of products, formerly known as the Nexusphere, which we do not manufacture ourselves. Most of the components of our LBS end unit devices are manufactured for us by independent manufacturers abroad and are assembled by a turn-key subcontractor located in Israel, and there is no certainty that this subcontractor will be able to continue to provide us with manufacturing and assembly services in the future. Furthermore, while cellular, GPS and car alarm devices are manufactured by several sub-contractors located in Israel, we currently only use the services of one such company. Our reliance on independent contractors, especially those located in foreign countries, involves a number of risks, including: 9 — reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost; — reduced manufacturing flexibility due to last moment quantity changes; — transportation delays; — political and economic disruptions; — the imposition of tariffs and export controls on such products; — work stoppages; — changes in government policies; and — the loss of molds and tooling in the event of a dispute with a manufacturer. Our agreements and understandings with our suppliers are generally short-term in nature and may be terminated with little or no notice. If a supplier of ours were to terminate its relationship with us, we may be compelled to seek additional sources to manufacture certain of the components of our systems or even to change the design of our products. Although we believe that most of the components of our systems may be readily acquired from numerous suppliers, we cannot assure you that we would be successful in entering into arrangements with other suitable independent manufacturers without significantly impairing our sales in the interim period. We are subject to several risks as a result of our international sales Systems based on our products and systems are currently installed in Israel, Argentina, Venezuela, Mexico, Russia, Chile and China. We are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including changes in the political and economic environment, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. In addition, if for any reason exchange, price controls or other restrictions on conversion of foreign currencies were to be imposed, the above business could be negatively impacted. Moreover, certain of these international operations have experienced the following difficulties: — A severe and rapid currency devaluation in Argentina adversely affected Pointer Localizacion Y Asistencia S.A., or Pointer Argentina, US dollar results during 2002. This was mainly due to Pointer Argentina’s inability to increase its Argentinian Peso-denominated prices to its customers, while its major costs of inventory and infrastructure are denominated in US dollars. — Venezuela has in recent years imposed foreign exchange controls which have effectively led to the cessation of purchase orders of our SVR products and services from our main customer in Venezuela during 2003. Additionally there is currently discussion by the Venezuelan government regarding the institution of a nationalization program, which could further adversely affect our operations there. The technology and standards in the stolen vehicle retrieval industry in which we operate change rapidly and the introduction of products using new technology and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could negatively impact our business The wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. The introduction of products using new technology and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could make our products less competitive and cause us to reduce the prices of our products. There are several wireless communications technologies, including cellular telephone, personal communications services, specialized mobile radio and mobile satellite services which have been or may be implemented in the future for applications competitive with the applications we provide. Future implementation and technological improvements could lead to the production of systems which are competitive with, or superior to ours. 10 Although during 2006 we introduced the Cellular / GPS Monitoring Unit as one of our products we cannot give any assurance that we will timely or successfully introduce or develop new or enhanced products, which will effectively compete with new products. Our business will be negatively impacted if we do not introduce or develop technologically competitive products that respond to customer needs and are priced competitively. Our Location Based Solution products employ proprietary technology, which is difficult to protect and which may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our success and our ability to compete in the LBS sector depend on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent and trade secret laws, together with non-disclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. We were granted certain patents in the United States and elsewhere; however, we have not invested significant resources to constantly update and maintain our proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that these efforts will successfully protect our technology because: — the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States; — if a competitor were to infringe on our proprietary rights, enforcing our rights may be time consuming and costly, diverting management's attention and our resources; — measures like entering into non-disclosure agreements afford only limited protection; — unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products and develop similar products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary; and — our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology, duplicate our technologies or design around our intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against us. The cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. The use of our proprietary Location Based Solution systems is subject to international regulations. While the use of our Cellular Monitoring Units, or CMUs, and services does not require regulatory approvals, the use of our traditional LBS systems is subject to regulatory approvals of government agencies in each of the countries in which our systems are operated, including the State of Israel. We thus obtained in 2001a regulatory acceptance from the FCC for our vehicular end-unit device (RMU) and for our SVR receiving base station, to the extent required for sale in the U.S. Our operators typically must obtain authorization from each country in which these systems are installed. While, in general, applicants have not experienced problems in obtaining regulatory approvals to date, the regulatory schemes in each country are different and may change from time to time. We cannot guarantee that approvals, which our operators have obtained, are or will remain sufficient in the view of regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that operators of our systems will obtain licenses and approvals on a timely basis in all jurisdictions in which we wish to sell our systems or that restrictions on the use of our systems will not be unduly burdensome. We may not be able to retain or attract key managerial, technical and research and development personnel that we need to succeed. Our success has largely depended and will depend in the future on our skilled professional and technical employees, substantially all of whom have written employment agreements. The competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our present employees, or recruit additional qualified employees, as we require them. Our major shareholder has a controlling stake in our company. Pursuant to a series of investments in our company since March 2003, and the exercise of certain warrants, DBSI Investments Ltd., or DBSI, currently owns approximately 22% of our issued and outstanding shares, or 17% on a fully diluted basis. As a result, DBSI has the ability to control material decisions requiring the approval of our shareholders. 11 Risk Factors Relating to our Ordinary Shares We do not expect to distribute cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors will decide whether to declare any cash dividends in the future based on the conditions then existing, including our earnings and financial condition. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits, so long as the company reasonably believes that such dividend distribution will not prevent the company from paying all its current and future debts. Profits, for purposes of the Companies Law, means the greater of retained earnings or earnings accumulated during the preceding two years. The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and may continue to be, very volatile. The market prices of our ordinary shares have fluctuated widely. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: — macro changes and changes in market share in the markets in which we provide services and products; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; — publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to services rendered by us or our competitors; — regulatory development in the United States, Israel and other countries; — events or announcements relating to our collaborative relationship with others; — economic, political and other external factors; — period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; and — substantial sales by significant shareholders of our ordinary shares which are currently or are in the process of being registered. In addition, the securities markets in general have experienced volatility, which has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and companies that have a significant presence in Israel. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Our ordinary shares may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly in price. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares has been limited and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods, or possibly at all. Thinly traded ordinary shares can be more volatile than ordinary shares traded in an active public market. The average daily trading volume of our ordinary shares from January 1, 2007 to May 1, 2007, on the Nasdaq Capital Market was 110,044 shares and on the TASE was 4,340 shares. The high and low bid price of our ordinary shares for since January 1, 2007 to May 1, 2007, has been $14.55 and $10.01, respectively on the Nasdaq Capital Market and between NIS 58 and NIS 42 during the same period on the TASE. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. Corporate governance scandals and new legislation could increase the cost of our operations. As a result of recent corporate governance scandals and the legislative and litigation environment resulting from those scandals, the costs of being a public company in general have increased and may continue to increase in the near future. Legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has had and may continue to have the effect of increasing the burdens and potential liabilities of being a public reporting company. This and other proposed legislation may increase the fees of our professional advisors and our insurance premiums. 12 Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Political and Military Conditions in Israel affect our operations. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Our headquarters, the headquarters of Shagrir, our operations and the operations of Shagrir, are located in Israel. We are directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early to mid-1980‘s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, hostility has existed, varying in degree and intensity, between Israel and the Arab countries. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have been subject to an economic boycott by the Arab countries. Although Israel has entered into agreements with some Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, there has been a significant increase in violence since September 2000 which continued with varying levels of severity through 2004. Since the death of Yasser Arafat in 2004, low-level negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have been renewed. Nevertheless, the political and security situation in Israel may result in certain parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. In addition, the election of representatives of the Hamas militant group in January 2006 to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council as well as the war with the Islamic militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon in July and August 2006 may create additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, many of our employees and subcontractors are located in Israel, which could still face a renewal of civil unrest, terrorist activity and military action. Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we could experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot give any assurance that security and political conditions will not have such an effect in the future. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. Furthermore, all non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel especially under the age of 40, including some of our office holders and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. In the past there have been significant call ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess the impact these conditions may have on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The Israeli rate of inflation may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar. A large part of our costs in Israel is not denominated in dollars and may be influenced by the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel. Should inflation in Israel impact our costs at a rate that exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar our dollar costs in Israel will increase, thus reducing our profitability. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, the Israeli economy recorded deflation of approximately 0.1% and the U.S. dollar devalued against the NIS by approximately 0.8%. However, in the last 15 years the Israeli economy recorded inflation of approximately 115% and the NIS devalued against the U.S. dollar by approximately 85%. For further discussion of such devaluation, see Item 5 – Impact of Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets, and Item 11 – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses from such fluctuations in the future. 13 We may not be eligible to receive grants or programs provided to us from our participation in research and development, investments and other programs or we may be restricted from manufacturing products or transferring our intellectual property outside of Israel. We have received certain grants and programs from the Israeli Government. Some of these programs may restrict our right to manufacture products or transfer our intellectual property outside of Israel. If we do not meet certain conditions in the future, we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs or pay fines. Service and enforcement of legal process. Service of process upon directors and officers of our company and the Israeli experts named herein, all of who reside outside the United States, may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, since the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained against us in the United States may not be enforceable within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Yigal Arnon & Co., that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce United States final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters obtained after due trial before a court of competent jurisdiction (according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel) which enforces similar Israeli judgments, provided that: (i) due service of process has been effected; (ii) such judgments or the enforcement thereof are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; (iii) such judgments were not obtained by fraud and do not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and (iv) an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. 