D. RISK FACTORS We conduct our operations through two main segments. Through our Cellocator segment, we design, develop and produce leading mobile resource management products, that include asset tracking, fleet management and security products for sale to third party operators providing mobile resource management services world-wide, and to our Pointer segment. Through our Pointer segment, we act as an operator primarily in Israel, Argentina, Mexico and Brazil by bundling our products together with a range of services (which varies in each country), including stolen vehicle retrieval services and fleet management, roadside assistance, and car sharing services, in addition to emergency home repair services for sale to insurance companies, car fleets, and individual customers. This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. 11 Risk Factors Relating to Our Company Conditions and changes in the global economic environment may adversely affect our business and financial results. The global economy continues to be adversely affected by stock market volatility, tightening of credit markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. These events and the related uncertainty about future economic conditions, including adverse conditions in Europe, a significant market for Cellocator, following the debt crisis there in 2011, could negatively impact our customers and, among other things, postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and jeopardize or delay their ability or willingness to make payment obligations, any of which could adversely affect our business. While it appears that the financial crisis in the Euro zone may be beginning to ease, we cannot exclude a potential further deterioration of economic conditions, in particular in the event of a sovereign debt default by one or more countries. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also cause volatility of our share price. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. In addition, while there has been a certain upturn in the worldwide automotive industry, this sector is cyclical in nature and difficult to predict. These factors, among other things, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If the current uncertainty in the general economy, the European economy in particular, and the automotive industries sector does not change or improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Changes in practices of insurance companies in the markets in which we provide, and sell, our SVR, RSA and emergency home repair products could adversely affect our revenues and growth potential. We depend on the practices of insurance companies in the markets in which we provide our SVR (Stolen Vehicle Recovery) services and sell our products. In Israel, most of the insurance companies either mandate the use of SVR services and products for certain cars, or their equivalent, as a prerequisite for providing insurance coverage to owners of certain medium and high-end vehicles, or provide insurance premium discounts to encourage vehicle owners to subscribe to services and purchase products such as ours. In Argentina, insurance companies purchase or lease our products directly and subsequently require their customers to subscribe to our SVR services. We also largely depend on the practices of insurance companies in the markets in which we provide our RSA (Road Side Assistance) services. The majority of our RSA customers are insurance companies which in turn sell our RSA services to their policy holders as policy benefits. Other customers of our RSA services include among others, governmental (i.e. towing services ordered by police departments) and leasing fleets. Therefore, we rely on insurance companies’ continued practice of: · accepting vehicle location and recovery technology as a preferred security product; 12 · with respect to insurance companies in Argentina, deciding to purchase or lease SVR services products from us directly; and · emergency home repair policy are sold as part of the policy coverage for houses and mortgages. If any of these policies or practices change, for regulatory or commercial reasons, or if market prices for these services fall, revenues from sales of our SVR services and products, RSA and emergency home repair could decline, which could adversely affect our revenues and growth potential. A decline in sales of consumer or commercial vehicles in the markets in which we operate could result in reduced demand for our products and services. Our mobile resource management products are primarily installed before or immediately after the initial sale of private or commercial vehicles. Consequently, a reduction in sales of new vehicles could reduce our market for mobile resource management services and products. New vehicle sales may decline for various reasons, including an increase in new vehicle tariffs, taxes or gas prices, or an increased difficulty in obtaining credit or financing in the applicable local or global economy. A decline in sales of new vehicles in the markets in which our Pointer segment and Cellocator segment operate could result in reduced demand for our services and products. A reduction in vehicle theft rates may adversely impact demand for our SVR services and products. Demand for our SVR services and products, depends primarily on prevailing or expected vehicle theft rates. Vehicle theft rates may decline as a result of various factors such as the availability of improved security systems, implementation of improved or more effective law enforcement measures, or improved economic or political conditions in markets that have high theft rates. If vehicle theft rates in some or our entire existing markets decline, or if insurance companies or our other customers believe that vehicle theft rates have declined or are expected to decline, demand for our SVR services and products may decline. The introduction of services and products using new technology and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could negatively impact our business. The wireless communications industry as a whole and specifically GPRS is characterized by rapid technological changes. The introduction of products using new technology and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could make our products less competitive and cause us to reduce the prices of our products. There are several wireless communications technologies, including HSPA, LTE, WiMax, personal communications services, specialized mobile radio and mobile satellite services which have been or may be implemented in the future for applications competitive with the applications we provide. Future implementation and technological improvements could lead to the production of systems and services which are competitive with, or superior to ours. 13 We cannot give any assurance that we will timely or successfully introduce or develop new or enhanced products and services, which will effectively compete with new systems available in the market. Our business will be negatively impacted if we do not introduce or develop technologically competitive products and services that respond to customer needs and are priced competitively. The increasing availability of handheld GPRS devices may reduce the demand for our products for small fleet management. The increasing availability of low cost handheld GPRS devices may result in a decrease in the demand for our products by managers of small autofleets or providers of low level services. The availability of such devices has expanded considerably in recent years. Any such decline in demand could cause a decline in our revenues and profitability. We depend on a small number of customers. Following our acquisition of Shagrir Towing Services, the customers which account for a significant part of the revenues of Shagrir Systems Ltd., or Shagrir, are primarily Israeli insurance companies which offer our roadside assistance and towing services as part of their vehicle insurance policy packages which they sell to their customers, as well as Argentine insurance companies which require their customers to obtain stolen vehicle retrieval services as part of their vehicle insurance policy packages. Although in 2013 none of our customers comprised over 10% of our total revenues, the loss of even a small number of our larger customers could materially affect our financial condition. If the creditworthiness or the financial strength of our customers were to decline, there could be an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Should geopolitical situations change in the countries where our customers operate, there could be additional credit risks. Our operations rely on the use of information technology and any material security failure of that technology could harm our business. Our operations, including the provision of mobile resource management services and our Cellocator segment, rely on the use of information technology and any material security failure of that technology or cyber attack could harm our business. Our operations, including our physical servers and certain applications, also use cloud computing and/or rely on server farms. Using remote computing resources carries a risk that unauthorized individuals could degrade or abscond with sensitive data or otherwise gain access to sensitive data. There are risks associated with the remote storage of data in installations that could be damaged, destroyed, seized, bankrupt, or otherwise no longer accessible. There are also concerns that Internet outages could result in data not being available when needed. 14 We have implemented cyber security controls which involve the prevention, detection and recovery of data in the event of cyber security breaches. We perform regular effectiveness of control reviews of some of our systems as well as an annual external review of the degrees of effectiveness of the network security in our various departments. However, the internal controls we use over cyber security may not be sufficient to prevent significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future, and we may also identify other conditions that could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. In the event of a cyber attack, we could experience the corruption or loss of data, misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, including customer information, or operational disruption. This could result in substantial loss of revenues, response costs and other financial loss, and may subject us to litigation and cause damage to our reputation, for which we may not be covered under our current insurance policies. The use of our products is subject to international regulations. The use of our products is subject to regulatory approvals of government agencies in each of the countries in which our systems are operated by our Pointer segment or by other operators, including the State of Israel. Our operators typically must obtain authorization from each country in which our systems and products are installed. While in general, operators have not experienced problems in obtaining regulatory approvals to date, the regulatory schemes in each country are different and may change from time to time. We cannot guarantee that approvals which our operators and our Pointer segment have obtained will remain sufficient in the view of regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that third party operators of our systems and products will obtain licenses and approvals on a timely basis in all jurisdictions in which we wish to sell our systems or that restrictions on the use of our systems will not be unduly burdensome. Our future operations depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. We have historically financed our operations through public and private placements of equity and debt securities, cash generated from the sales of our systems, grants for research and development projects, loans and bank credit lines. We believe that our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and outstanding bank credit lines, will sufficiently allow us to continue our operations as a going concern for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot assure that if we are required to raise additional financing in the future that we will be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, if at all, and a financing through the issuance of shares may result in the dilution of the interests of our current shareholders. As a result of the registration statements that we currently have outstanding, many of our investors who hold our securities, which might include DBSI Investments Ltd., or DBSI, our controlling shareholder, may elect to sell some or all of our securities. 15 Should such sales be significant in volume or take place over a short period of time, our share price may decline significantly, and we may find it difficult to raise additional funding through the issuance of equity or debt securities. If our future capital requirements are greater than the cash we obtain from our business and available financing, if any, we may, among other things, be required to significantly reduce our research, development, product commercialization, marketing or other activities or even cease operations. Over recent years, the securities markets in general have experienced increased volatility, which has particularly affected the securities and operations of many companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies, they may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities markets in general may affect our ability to obtain additional financing at favorable terms. We have incurred net losses in recent years. During 2011, 2009 and 2007, we incurred a net loss. We may again experience net losses in the future given the markets in which we operate. As a part of our strategy, we are focusing on the development of new businesses, products, technology and services in the territories in which we currently operate as well as in new territories. Investing in such new businesses may result in an increase in short term losses. If we again sustain prolonged net losses or losses from continuing operations, we may have to cease our operations. Pointer, Shagrir and Pointer do Brazil Commercial S.A have significant loans from banks and others which they are required to repay in accordance with strict schedules that they may not be able to meet or that limit our operating and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2013, Pointer do Brazil Commercial S.A, or Pointer Brazil, had, in the aggregate, approximately $838 thousand in an outstanding loan from Bracco do Brasil Empreendimentos e Participações Ltda ("Bracco"). Should Pointer Brazil fail to repay the loan in accordance with the repayment schedule pertaining to the loan or if the lender refuses to amend the relevant repayment schedule, Bracco may realize certain liens that were created in their favor, which in turn may have a material adverse affect on Pointer Brazil's financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, Shagrir had, in the aggregate, approximately $14 million in outstanding loans from Bank Hapoalim and Bank Leumi. Despite the fact that Shagrir is cash positive, should Shagrir fail to repay the loans in accordance with the repayment schedule pertaining to each loan or should the banks refuse to amend the relevant repayment schedule, the banks may realize certain liens that were created in its favor by Shagrir. This could result in Shagrir having to divest itself of parts of its business and may result in the impairment or cessation of its operations. 16 As of December 31, 2013, Pointer had, in the aggregate, approximately $3.1 million in outstanding loans from Bank Hapoalim and unutilized credit facilities of approximately $4.6 million from Bank Hapoalim and Israel Discount Bank B.M. Should Pointer fail to repay the loans in accordance with the repayment schedule pertaining to each loan or if Bank Hapoalim refuses to amend the relevant repayment schedule, Bank Hapoalim may realize certain liens that were created in its favor, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on Pointer's financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, Pointer had utilized $0.3 million of a credit facility with Israel Discount Bank B.M. $0.7 million was unutilized as of that date. In May 2013 Pointer increased its credit facilities with Bank Hapoalim for an aggregate amount of $5.25 million, in order to finance its working capital. As of December 31, 2013, $1.6 million of these credit facilities had been utilized. The credit facilities and loans described above contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit the operating and financial flexibility of Pointer and Shagrir. Please see Notes 11c and 11d to our consolidated financial statements for further information. The covenants are required to be met on an annual basis. Failure to comply with any of the covenants could lead to an event of default under the agreements governing some or all of the credit facilities and loans under applicable cross-default provisions, permitting the lenders to accelerate the repayment of the borrower in default. As of December 31, 2013, both Pointer and Shagrir were in compliance with the restrictive financial covenants. Our ability to continue to comply with these and other obligations depends in part on the future performance of our business. There can be no assurance that such obligations will not materially adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business. In particular, any noncompliance with performance-related covenants and other undertakings of our credit facilities could result in an acceleration of our outstanding debt under our credit facilities and restrict our ability to obtain additional funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information on the loans described above, please see Item 5B – Liquidity and Capital Resources and Item 10 – Material Contracts. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable assets become impaired. Our balance sheet contains a significant amount of goodwill and other amortizable intangible assets in long-term assets, totaling about $58 million at December 31, 2013. In 2011, we wrote-down our goodwill by an amount of $6.2 million due to the impact of changes in economic conditions and forecasted results of our Cellocator segment. Additionally, in 2011, we amortized $0.5 million of the development technology intangible assets acquired from Cellocator Ltd. in September 2007. The circumstances leading to the impairment are attributed to the obsolescence of certain older Cellocator technology. 17 In 2009 we amortized $3 million of customer related intangible assets attributable to our acquisition of Cellocator due to the decrease in activity of former customers of Cellocator as a result of the worldwide economic downturn. No impairment losses from continuing operations were identified in 2013 - 2012 and 2010. During 2012, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to discontinued operation of TMC in the amount of $0.35 million. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually and more frequently in the event that indicators for potential impairment exist. We review our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a sustained decline in our share price, market capitalization or future cash flows, slower growth rates in our industry, termination of contracts assumed in connection with a merger or acquisition and obsolescence of acquired technology. In particular, the nature of the current worldwide economic instability and the potential impact of this on our business and our share price could require us to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements due to impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets. If that happens, then our results of operations will be negatively impacted for the period in which such determination was made. The Argentine government may enact or enforce measures to preempt or respond to social unrest or economic turmoil which may adversely affect our business in Argentina. Our subsidiary, Pointer Localizacion Y Asistencia S.A., or Pointer Argentina, operates in Argentina, where government has historically exercised significant influence over the country’s economy. In recent years, Argentina faced nationwide strikes that disrupted economic activity and have heightened political tension. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, customs duties and levies including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. Additionally, due to agreements with the General Workers' Union in Argentina and the country's high inflation rate, we may be required to increase employee salaries at a rate which could adversely affect Pointer Argentina's business. Our financial statements may not reflect certain payments we may be required to make to employees In certain countries, we are not required to reflect future severance fees in our liabilities. In countries such as Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, companies are not dedicating amounts to possible future severance payments. Nonetheless, in such cases, companies must pay the severance payment in cash upon termination the employment. We don’t have a provision in our financial statements and the expenses recorded upon termination. As a result, our financial statements may not adequately reflect possible future severance payments 18 Some of our employees in our subsidiaries are members of labor unions and a dispute between us and any such labor union could result in a labor strike that could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate revenues in the markets where such employees are located. Some of our employees in our subsidiaries are members of labor unions. If a labor dispute were to develop between us and our unionized employees, such employees could go on strike and we could suffer work stoppage for a significant period of time. A labor dispute can be difficult to resolve and may require us to seek arbitration for resolution, which can be time consuming, distracting to management, expensive and difficult to predict. The occurrence of a labor dispute with our unionized employees could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate revenues in the markets where such employees are located. Any inability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal control attestation may negatively impact the report on our financial statements to be provided by our independent auditors. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404(a) of the United States Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management report assessing the Company’s effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20−F. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Such a conclusion could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our shares. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and re−evaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. Finally, we are responsible for the integration of Pointer Brazil (see “Recent Developments”) commencing October 2013 and to ensure its compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. 19 Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce non-compete covenants and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition agreements with many of our employees. However, due to the difficulty in enforcing non-competition agreements globally, not all of our employees in other jurisdictions have such agreements. These agreements generally prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a certain period of time following termination of their employment agreements. Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We may not be able to retain or attract key managerial, technical and research and development personnel that we need to succeed. Our success has largely depended and will depend in the future on our ability to retain skilled professional and technical personnel and to attract additional qualified personnel in the future. The competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain our present personnel, or recruit additional qualified personnel, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our major shareholder has a controlling stake in our company and is affiliated with three members of our board of directors. DBSI currently owns approximately 33.10% of our issued and outstanding shares or 31.83% on a fully diluted basis. As a result, DBSI has the ability to control material decisions requiring the approval of our shareholders. Our board of directors currently consists of six members, of which three are affiliated with DBSI. As a result, DBSI has the ability to affect the decisions made by our full board of directors. Risk Factors relating to our Pointer segment We may not be able to successfully compete in the extremely competitive markets for our services. We face intense competition in every market in which we offer our services. Should any of our competitors successfully provide a broader, more efficient or otherwise attractive combination of services to insurance companies, automobile owners, fleets, and car sharing users, in addition to such services as roadside assistance or emergency home repair, our business results could be materially adversely affected. For more information on our competitors, see “Item 4B - Competition”. 20 Due to the significant penetration of mobile resource management services, or MRM, such as stolen vehicle retrieval services, asset-tracking services and fleet management services, as well as the moderate overall growth of these markets in the countries in which they are provided, we anticipate that revenues from MRM sales will continue to increase in those countries. However, as a result of intense competition in those markets, we expect that our margins may decrease and the churn rate may increase. We rely on third party operators to provide our services in certain countries In countries in which our subsidiaries conduct services activities, we rely on subcontractors and police forces to provide our stolen vehicle retrieval services. This requires us to maintain solid relationships with these third party operators and governmental entities to ensure that they continue to work with us and provide effective service to our customers. Since we do not own these third party operators, we have little or no control over their effectiveness or methods of operation. Should we fail to maintain relationships with these third party operators, or should these operators fail to successfully market and service our products, including a failure to recover the stolen vehicles effectively and in a timely manner, it could negatively impact customers’ perception of the usefulness of our services and our business would be adversely affected. In offering our services, we use fixed price contracts with our customers while our expenses are largely variable. Most of the MRM services, including stolen vehicle retrieval services, fleet management services, and services provided by our Pointer segment are offered at monthly fixed price contracts, according to which we are paid a fixed price each month by our customers who subscribe to receive these services. Should operational expenses increase due to factors such as increased labor costs, communication cost over GPRS networks (SIM) or any other materials necessary for our operations, our profit margins could suffer as a result. Since it is often difficult to predict future increases in the cost of components or labor costs, our fixed price contracts may not adequately cover our future outlays. Our roadside services in Israel are offered at annual or monthly fixed price contracts, according to which we are generally paid a fixed price by insurance companies for each of their customers who subscribe to receive our services. Similarly, we are paid an annual fixed price by insurance companies for our emergency home repair services. Should operational expenses increase due to factors such as an increase in the price of gasoline, labor costs or any other materials necessary for our operations, our profit margins could suffer as a result. Since it is often difficult to predict future increases in labor costs or other variable costs, our fixed price contracts may not adequately cover our future outlays. Additionally, the frequency by which subscribers may take advantage of our roadside services can vary unpredictably. Sustained adverse weather conditions, increased regional hostilities or acts of terrorism, poor road maintenance or an increased theft rate may increase customer usage of our services in any given year, thus reducing profit margins. 21 Risk Factors relating to our Cellocator segment Manufacturing of products by our Cellocator segment is highly complex, and an interruption by suppliers, subcontractors or vendors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The products that we market, distribute and sell through our Cellocator segment are either manufactured or assembled at our own facility in Israel or, in certain cases, manufactured, surface mounted on printed circuit boards and assembled through supply agreements with third party subcontractors in Israel and abroad. Since 2010, we have been transitioning certain elements of our manufacturing and assembly process to third party subcontractors abroad and in Israel and are considering transitioning more of the manufacturing and assembly process to subcontractors going forward. As a result, our control over the manufacturing process has been reduced to some degree and our dependence on third party manufacturers and producers has been increased. Consequently, as this transitioning continues, the number of factors over which we have only limited control will increase, which may have an adverse affect our future production and supply capabilities. Additionally, many of our products are the result of complex manufacturing processes, and are sometimes dependent on components with a limited source of supply. As a result, we can provide no assurances that supply sources will not be interrupted from time to time. Furthermore, our subcontractors or vendors may fail to obtain supply components and fail to deliver our products. As a result, a failure to deliver by our subcontractors or vendors can result in decreased revenues. Such interruption or delay of our suppliers to deliver components or interruption or delay of our vendors or subcontractors to deliver our products could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The growth of our business depends on the success of our current and new products. Our growth depends on the continued success of our existing products, as well as the successful design and introduction of new products. For example, as is the case with any product intended to prevent vehicle theft, over time, there may be an increased ability of unauthorized persons to detect, deactivate, disable or otherwise inhibit the effectiveness of our stolen vehicle retrieval, or SVR, or anti-theft products (although it is difficult to verify this fact). An increase in the ability of unauthorized persons to detect, deactivate, disable or otherwise inhibit the effectiveness of those products could adversely affect demand for our SVR and anti-theft products, which would consequently affect our revenues. In addition, our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and business trends. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, we may have to invest more resources in development than we originally intended. Marketing can be longer than expected and there is no assurance of successful development or increased returns from a potential market, which may adversely affect our business. 22 Undetected defects in our products may increase our costs and impair the market’s acceptance of our products. The development, enhancement, implementation and manufacturing of the complex products of our Cellocator segment entail substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or future products, resulting in delay or loss of revenues, warranty expense, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance, severe damage to our reputation or any other adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the complexities involved in implementing our products entail additional risks of performance failures. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on operators to market and deliver the products of our Cellocator segment. Our revenues from consecutive end unit sales, future system upgrades, future infrastructure extensions and other sources, where applicable, are from countries in which third party operators, as well as the Pointer segment acting as an operator, conduct stolen vehicle recovery and fleet management services and are therefore dependent on their penetration rate and successful sale growth as well as the operators’ continuous success and their continuous decision to offer these products in their respective territories. Should we fail to maintain relationships with these third party operators, or these operators fail to successfully market and service our products, our business would be adversely affected. Our Cellocator segment relies on limited suppliers to manufacture devices for our stolen vehicle retrieval and fleet management systems (also referred to as Mobile Resource Management Solutions). While we have a diversified product base, offering customers cellular units together with GPS devices and other technology, we are still principally reliant on devices and components which we do not manufacture ourselves. Most of our components for the devices in our Cellocator products are manufactured for us by independent manufacturers abroad. Surface mounting on printed circuit boards is performed by two subcontractors. Assembly is performed by us and by subcontractors located in Israel and abroad. There is no certainty that these subcontractors will be able to continue to provide us with manufacturing and assembly services in the future. Our reliance on independent contractors, especially those located in foreign countries, involves a number of risks, including: · reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost; · reduced manufacturing flexibility due to last moment quantity changes; · transportation delays; 23 · political and economic disruptions; · the imposition of tariffs and export controls on such products; · work stoppages; · changes in government policies; · the loss of molds and tooling in the event of a dispute with a manufacturer; and · the loss of time, when attempting to switch from one assembly-manufacturer to another, thereby disrupting deliveries to customers. Our agreements and understandings with our suppliers are generally short-term in nature and may be terminated with little or no notice. If a supplier of ours terminates its relationship with us, we may be compelled to seek additional sources to manufacture certain of the components of our systems or even to change the design of our products. Although we believe that most of the components of our systems may be readily acquired from numerous suppliers, we cannot assure you that we would be successful in entering into arrangements with other suitable independent manufacturers without significantly impairing our sales in the interim period. In addition, relying on third-party suppliers requires us to maintain solid relationships to ensure that they continue to work with us. Since we do not own these third party suppliers, we have little or no control over their methods of operation. Should we fail to maintain relationships with these third party suppliers, our business would be adversely affected. We are subject to several risks as a result of obsolescence of product components. Although we believe that most of the components of our systems may be readily acquired from numerous suppliers, a number of the components are, or are likely to become in the near term, obsolete. We cannot ensure the accessibility of substitute parts for such components. Consequently, where components become obsolete we will need to choose between entirely replacing products which contain obsolete parts or modifying existing products in a manner which will facilitate the incorporation of non-obsolete components. Both alternatives will require additional expenditure and reliance on third party manufacturers, and a failure to properly manage these additional costs and requirements could adversely affect our business. We are subject to several risks as a result of the international sales of our Cellocator segment. Systems based on our products are currently installed worldwide and the majority of our products are sold outside of Israel. We are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including changes in the political and economic environment, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. In addition, if for any reason, exchange, price controls or other restrictions on conversion of foreign currencies were to be imposed, the operations of our Cellocator segment could be negatively impacted. In some of our international operations, we experienced the following difficulties: · longer sales cycles, especially upon entry into a new geographic market or engaging with new customers; 24 · foreign exchange controls and licenses; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs; · currency fluctuations; · economic or political instability; · international tax aspects; · regulation requirements; and · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property. We may not be able to successfully compete in the extremely competitive markets for our products. Our Cellocator segment sells mostly GPS/GPRS based vehicle devices and radio frequency based vehicle devices. In the GPS/GPRS field there is strong competition with many manufacturers introducing vehicle devices with competitive prices and various performance features. These devices are offered to operators that provide fleet management and stolen vehicle recovery services and there is strong competition with respect to different aspects such as price, performance parameters, etc. Should any of our competitors successfully provide a broader range of products with competitive pricing, our business results could be materially adversely affected. While we plan to continue improving our technology and products, and maintain our marketing efforts, we cannot guarantee that we will increase or maintain our customer base. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. Our success and our ability to compete in sales of products by our Cellocator segment depend on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of proprietary technology, know-how and trade secret laws, together with non-disclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. We cannot assure you that these efforts will successfully protect our technology due to the following factors: · the laws of certain foreign countries may not adequately protect our proprietary rights to the extent that they are protected in other countries; · unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology that we regard as proprietary; · if a competitor were to infringe on our proprietary rights, enforcing our rights may be time consuming and costly, diverting management’s attention and our resources; · measures like entering into non-disclosure agreements afford only limited protection; and · our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology, duplicate our technologies or design around our intellectual property rights. 25 In addition, others may assert infringement claims against us. The cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether such claims are valid. We may see a decrease in demand for our products should vehicle manufacturers begin embedding tracking and communication devices in their vehicles as part of their basic vehicle offerings. Our stolen vehicle retrieval and mobile resource management products are primarily installed before or immediately after the initial sale of private or commercial vehicles. Consequently, should vehicle manufacturers elect, or be required by governmental regulations or otherwise, to develop and embed alternative tracking and communication devices (such as E-call service devices which also designed to automatically call for assistance in the event of emergencies) in their vehicles, there may be a decrease in demand for our products. Risk Factors Relating to our Ordinary Shares We do not expect to distribute cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors will decide whether to declare any cash dividends in the future based on the conditions then existing, including our earnings and financial condition, and subject to the provisions of the Israeli Companies Law – 1999, or the Israeli Companies Law. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits, so long as the company reasonably believes that such dividend distribution will not prevent the company from paying all its current and future debts. Profits, for purposes of the Israeli Companies Law, means the greater of retained earnings or earnings accumulated during the preceding two years. The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and may continue to be, very volatile. The market prices of our ordinary shares have fluctuated widely. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: · changes in the global financial markets and U.S. and Israeli stock markets relating to turbulence amid stock market volatility, tightening of credit markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and general liquidity concerns; · macro changes and changes in market share in the markets in which we provide services and products; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; 26 · publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to services rendered by us or our competitors; · regulatory development in the United States, Israel and other countries; · events or announcements relating to our collaborative relationship with others; · economic, political and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; and · substantial sales by significant shareholders of our ordinary shares which are currently or are in the process of being registered. In addition, the securities markets in general have experienced volatility, which has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Our ordinary shares may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly in price. Our ordinary shares are currently only traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Trading in our ordinary shares has been limited and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop. As a result, our shareholders' ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods or in large volumes may be impacted. Thinly traded shares can be more volatile than shares traded in an active public market. The average daily trading volume of our ordinary shares from January 1, 2014 to February 27, 2014 was 94,497 shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the high and low bid price of our ordinary shares from January 1, 2014 to February 27, 2014 has been $13.22 and $8.72 respectively on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. Corporate governance controversies and new legislation in the United States could increase the cost of our operations. As a result of corporate governance controversies in the United States and the legislative and litigation environment resulting from those controversies, the costs of being a public company in general have increased and may continue to increase in the near future. Legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has had and may continue to have the effect of increasing the burdens and potential liabilities of being a public reporting company. This and other proposed legislation may increase the costs of compliance with this legislation and our insurance premiums. 27 Compliance with the US Conflict Minerals Law may affect our ability or the ability of our suppliers to purchase raw materials at an effective cost. Many industries rely on materials which are subject to regulation concerning certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC") or adjoining countries, which include Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Angola, Congo, and Central African Republic. These minerals are commonly referred to as conflict minerals. Conflict minerals which may be used in our industry or by our suppliers include Columbite-tantalite (derivative of tantalum [Ta]), Cassiterite (derivative of tin [Sn]), gold [Au], Wolframite (derivative of tungsten [W]), and Cobalt [Co]. In August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for companies that use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements will require due diligence efforts in fiscal year 2013, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Although we expect that we and our suppliers will be able to comply with the requirements, there is no assurance that we will be able to gather all of the information required from our suppliers. In addition, there is increasing public sentiment that companies should avoid using conflict materials from the DRC and adjoining countries. Although we believe our suppliers do not rely on such conflict materials, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of materials needed for our production from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries. A failure to obtain necessary information or to maintain adequate supplies of materials from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries may delay our production, increasing the risk of losing customers and business. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Political, Military and Economic Conditions in Israel affect our operations. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Our headquarters, the headquarters of Shagrir and the Cellocator segment, are located in Israel, as well as the majority of the business activities of Shagrir and the manufacturing operations of our Cellocator segment, which account for the majority of our revenues. Consequentially, we are directly affected by the political, military and economic conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Since September 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in January 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in June 2007. Hamas has launched hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip against Israeli population centers, disrupting day-to-day civilian life in southern Israel. This led to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009 and continued sporadic missile launching from the Gaza strip to Israel. Thereafter, in November 2012 there was another armed conflict, involving attacks by hundreds of missiles fired from the Gaza Strip against the Israeli population centers throughout the southern half of Israel and up to and including Tel-Aviv. Any damage to our Israeli facilities would damage our ability to manufacture our products and could otherwise damage our operation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. More generally, any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations, including following termination of such conflicts, due to a decrease in the number of tourists visiting Israel. At the end of 2010 and during 2011, 2012 and 2013 several countries in the region, including Egypt and Syria, have been experiencing increased political instability, which led to change in government in some of these countries (including Egypt), the effects of which are currently difficult to assess. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. 28 Any downturn in the Israeli economy may also have a significant impact on our business. Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early to mid-1980’s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. The revenues of Shagrir may be adversely affected if fewer vehicles are used as a result of an economic downturn in Israel, an increase in use of mass transportation, an increase in vehicle related taxes, an increase in the imputed value of vehicles provided as a part of employee compensation or other macroeconomic changes affecting the use of vehicles. In addition, our stolen vehicle retrieval services significantly depend on Israeli insurance companies mandating subscription to a service such as ours. If Israeli insurance companies cease to require such subscriptions, our business could be significantly adversely affected. We also rely on the renewal and retention of several operating licenses issued by certain Israeli regulatory authorities. Should such authorities fail to renew any of these licenses, suspend existing licenses, or require additional licenses, we may be forced to suspend or cease certain services that we provide. Many of our employees in Israel are required to perform military reserve duty. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40, including some of our office holders and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. In the past there have been significant call ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess the impact these conditions may have on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. 29 We may be adversely affected by a change in the exchange rate of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. Dollar. Exchange rates between the NIS and the U.S. Dollar have fluctuated continuously in recent years. Exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on our revenues and profitability and period-to-period comparisons of our results. In 2012, 2010 and, the NIS appreciated in value in relation to the Dollar by 2.3%, 6%, and 0.7%, respectively. In 2013 and 2011, the NIS depreciated in value in relation to the Dollar by 7.7%. The fluctuation during 2013 was between 2.1% revaluation and 7% devaluation. As of December 31, 2013, our revenues in NIS accounted for approximately 76% of our total revenues in 2013. Loans and utilized credit facilities in the amount of approximately $14.4 million, constituting approximately 71% out of our total loans and credit facilities, are also denominated in NIS. Approximately 83% of our expenses (primarily labor expenses of the operations of our Cellocator segment and Shagrir in Israel) are incurred in NIS. Additionally, certain assets, as well as a portion of our liabilities, are denominated in NIS. On the other hand, as of December 31, 2013, our sales, including sales of the products of our Cellocator segment, are generally denominated in U.S. Dollars and to a lesser extent in Euro, Argentinean Pesos, Brazilian Real and Mexican Pesos. Loans and credit facilities in the amount of approximately $4.4 million, constituting approximately 21.7% out of our total loans and credit facilities, are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Our results may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. Dollar (or if such devaluation is on lagging basis) if our revenues in NIS are higher than our expenses in NIS and/or the amount of our assets in NIS are higher than our liabilities in NIS. Alternatively, our results may be adversely affected by appreciation of the NIS in relation to the Dollar (or if such appreciation is on a lagging basis), if the amount of our expenses in NIS are higher than the amount of our revenues in NIS and/or the amount of our liabilities in NIS are higher than our assets in NIS. We may utilize partial hedging to manage currency risk. For example, in 2012 we entered into a foreign currency hedging transaction in order to partially manage the risk related to salary expenses. In 2013, in connection with our acquisition of Pointer Brazil, we entered into a foreign currency hedging transaction in order to partially manage the risk related to Brazilian Real. See Item 4A.HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY – Recent Developments. Therefore, to the extent that our currency risk is not hedged or sufficient hedged, we may experience exchange rate losses which could significantly and negatively affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses from such fluctuations in the future. For further discussion of the fluctuation of the U.S. Dollar to the NIS, please see Item 5 - Impact of Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets, and Item 11 - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 30 We may be adversely affected by a change of the Israeli, Brazilian and Argentine Consumer Price Index. Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index, or Israeli CPI, relates primarily to loans borrowed by us from banks and other lenders. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding loans in the amount of $0.4 million linked to Israeli CPI. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of Israeli CPI, which measures inflation in Israel, will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the US Dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the Dollar cost of our borrowings. By administrative order, certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut (General Federation of Labor in Israel) and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations, relating primarily to the length of the work day, pension contributions, insurance for work-related accidents, and other conditions of employment are applicable to our employees. In accordance with these provisions, the salaries of our employees are partially indexed to the Israeli CPI. In the event that inflation in Israel will increase, we will have to increase the salaries of our employees in Israel respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we did not increase the salaries of our employees in Israel due to an increase in inflation. In Brazil and Argentina, we are facing a similar situation, and accordingly, in 2013, due to an increase in inflation, we increased the salaries of some of our employees. There can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by such increase in salaries in the future. We may not be eligible for programs or to receive grants provided to us from our participation in research and development, investments and other programs or we may be restricted from manufacturing products or transferring our intellectual property outside of Israel. We have received certain grants and programs from the Israeli Government. Some of these programs may restrict our right to manufacture products or transfer our intellectual property outside of Israel. If we do not meet certain conditions in the future, we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs or pay fines. It may be difficult and costly to enforce a judgment issued in the United States against us, our executive officers and directors, or to assert United States securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated and headquartered in Israel. Service of process upon directors and officers of our company and the Israeli experts named herein, all of who reside outside the United States, may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, since the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained against us in the United States may not be enforceable within the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. 31 