ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s continued success depends on management’s ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage a wide range of enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and additional information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those in this document or made by the Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release web casts, investor conference presentations, or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management or that management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, it could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline materially, or cause actual results to differ materially from those expected. The Company’s business is dependent on sophisticated data processing systems that are critical to the business operations. The Company has increasingly become more reliant on its information systems due to centralizing certain customer support and administrative processes. The success of the Company’s business relies on the ability to obtain, process, analyze, maintain, and manage data. Management relies on the capability, accuracy, timeliness, and stability of its data processing systems to: • receive and ship customer orders; • manage customer billings and collections; • provide point-of-sale product cost information net of rebates; • track and report third-party ancillary billing services; • provide product reporting, such as product sales by vendor and vendor incentives earned; • manage centralized procurement and inventory management processes; • track and report regulatory compliance related to certain drugs and devices; • provide sophisticated manufacturer rebate tracking, compliance, verification, and correction; • ensure payments to vendors are made in accordance with negotiated terms; • ensure certain key automated internal controls are operating; • report financial statements and related information on a quarterly basis to the public; • integrate acquisitions; and • process employee compensation and provide record keeping. The Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if, among other things: • data errors are created by the system and remain undetected; • data processing capabilities are interrupted or fail to operate for any extended length of time; • data services are not kept current; • the data processing system becomes unable to support expanded business; • data is lost or unable to be re-stored or processed; • data security is breached; • product maintenance and upgrades to the enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, without reasonable notification, are no longer provided, by vendors; or • a revision is made to the estimated useful lives for certain computer software. The Elder Care Business’ implementation of the JD Edwards customer service module could temporarily disrupt its operations. The Elder Care Business has successfully completed the implementation of the JD Edwards XE® general ledger, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and distribution modules at all of its distribution centers. During fiscal 16 Table of Contents year 2006, the Elder Care Business commenced the implementation of the customer service module of JDE XE. Management anticipates that this implementation will be successfully completed during the fiscal year 2007; however, there can be no assurance that the implementation will be completed within the time frame projected by management. There also can be no assurance that the implementation of the JDE XE customer service module at the Elder Care Business’ distribution centers will be successfully completed without disrupting the operations of the business. If the implementation disrupts the operations of the Elder Care Business or is not completed in a timely manner, the Company’s business and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Numerous factors, many of which cannot be controlled by the Company, may cause the Company’s net sales and results of operations to fluctuate quarterly, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s net sales and operating results may fluctuate quarterly as a result of many factors, including: • fluctuating demand for the products and services offered by the Company; • the introduction of new products and services offered by the Company and its competitors; • seasonal vaccine sales; • retention of sales representatives and other key employees; • acquisitions, disposals, or investments by the Company; • changes in manufacturers’ pricing policies and/or contract terms; • changes in manufacturers’ distribution strategies; • changes in the level of operating expenses; • changes in estimates used by management; • changes in business strategies by competitors; • changes in the Company’s business strategies; • product supply shortages; • product recalls by manufacturers; • inventory valuation adjustments; • changes in product mix; • general economic conditions; • fuel costs and third party shipping rates; • inclement weather; • changes in accounting principles; • disruptions resulting from implementing strategic business plans; • disruptions resulting from implementing ERP systems; • the number of selling days in a period; and • changes by the government, including changes in reimbursement rates and regulatory requirements related to the distribution of pharmaceutical products. Accordingly, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of the results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance because these factors may cause the Company’s results of operations to be below analysts’ and investors’ expectations in certain future periods. This could materially and adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s future results of operations could be adversely affected by operational disruptions due to natural disasters, particularly in regions susceptible to hurricanes. A severe weather event such as a hurricane, tornado, or flood could cause severe damage to the Company’s property and inventory. In addition, such weather events can cause extended disruptions to the Company’s operations. The Company can provide no assurance that a future hurricane or other local disaster would not materially impact the Company’s business or results of operations in the future. 17 Table of Contents The Company has developed disaster recovery plans, which includes the use of third party back-up facilities for information system infrastructure. In addition, the Company maintains business interruption insurance for instances of catastrophic loss. There is a risk that the Company may fail to execute its disaster recovery plans and incur losses that either exceed insurance policy limits or are excluded from policy provisions. Furthermore, the Company may have difficulty obtaining business interruption insurance in the future or similar types of coverage may not be available in the markets in which it operates. The Company’s failure to execute or the inability to execute any of its disaster recovery plans and inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage could materially adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company may face increasing, competitive pricing pressures on its sales to large national and regional accounts and consolidated provider groups. Sales to large, national and regional accounts and consolidated provider groups, especially in the long-term care market, represent a significant portion of the Company’s revenue base. Competitive pricing pressures may increase due to: • change in ownership of the large chains; • additional negotiating leverage of large, regional and national chains; • vendor agreements containing volume discounts; • service specifications; • financial health of customers; • activity of competitors; and • activity of Group Purchasing Organizations (“GPOs”). The Company’s business strategy may not mitigate the effect of pricing pressures which could adversely impact the Company’s net sales, gross margins, and results of operations. Pricing and customer credit quality pressures, due to reduced spending budgets by healthcare providers, may affect the Company’s net sales, ability to collect accounts receivable, and results of operations. A significant portion of medical care costs in the United States are funded by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and corporate health insurance plans. In recent years, government-imposed limits on reimbursement to hospitals, physicians, nursing homes, home health providers, and other healthcare providers have significantly impacted spending budgets in certain markets within the medical-products industry. Future changes in Medicare and state administered Medicaid programs may limit payments to providers served by the Company, particularly within the long-term care industry. Also, any reduction in the reimbursements available to physicians under Medicare and Medicaid programs may lead to a corresponding reduction in the spending budgets of physicians, the principal customers of the Physician Business. Significant reductions in reimbursement levels and adjustments may negatively impact the Company’s customers’ financial health and liquidity and may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Elder Care Business has a limited number of large customers. The Elder Care Business, which depends on a limited number of large customers for a significant portion of its net sales, has long-term contracts with each of its largest customers. The consolidation or divestiture of large nursing home facilities may result in the loss of a significant, large customer or portion thereof in the Elder Care Business and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, an adverse change in the financial condition of one or more of these large customers could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The future results of operations of the Elder Care Business depends on its ability to successfully restructure operations to remove operational and other costs associated with revenue declines due to the loss of these large customers as well as increase penetration in existing regional and independent accounts. 18 Table of Contents The viability of the Company’s customers may be threatened by increasing costs of malpractice claims and liability insurance. Insurance rates for customers of the Elder Care and Physician Businesses have greatly increased. If meaningful reform legislation is not adopted or adopted legislation is not effective in reducing these rates, many of the Company’s customers may be adversely affected which, in turn, could affect their profitability. As a result, customer financial viability may be adversely impact the Company’s financial condition, net sales, results of operations, and cash flows from operations. The Company may not be able to continue to compete successfully with other medical supply companies and direct manufacturers. The medical supply distribution market is highly competitive. The Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected if competitors lower prices of products similar to those distributed by the Company. Principal competitors of the Company include full-line and full-service, multi-market medical distributors, internet distributors, and direct manufacturers, many of which have a national presence. The Company also faces significant competition from regional and local dealers, telesales firms, internet companies, and mail order firms. The Company’s competitors may have the following strengths: • sales representatives competing directly with the Company; • capability to market products directly to the Company’s customers; • access to many products distributed by the Company from various suppliers; • substantially greater financial resources than the Company; • lower product costs; and • lower operating costs. If the Company is unable to compete successfully with other medical supply distributors and direct manufacturers, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Continued consolidation of medical supply distributors within the healthcare industry may lead to increased competition. Consolidation within the healthcare industry has resulted in increased competition by direct manufacturers, large national distributors, and drug wholesalers, and may result in lower customer pricing and/or higher operating costs. Continued consolidation of medical supply distributors could result in the following: • competitors obtaining exclusive rights to market products to the Company’s customers; • potential new entrants to the markets the Company serves; • national hospital distributors, drug wholesale distributors, and healthcare manufacturers could begin focusing their efforts more directly on the Company’s markets; • hospitals that form alliances with long-term care facilities to create integrated healthcare networks may look to hospital distributors and manufacturers to supply their long-term care affiliates; and • provider networks created through consolidation among physician provider groups, long-term care facilities, and other alternate site providers may shift purchasing decisions to people with whom the Company has no current selling relationship. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain operating margins and customer relationships and avoid increased competition and significant pricing pressure in the future if medical supply distributor consolidations occur. 19 Table of Contents Expansion of the multi-tiered costing structure may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage. The medical-products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than the Company. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated healthcare providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. Although the Company is seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices dictated by GPO contracts or other contracts, management cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. The Company depends on the availability of multi-tiered priced products from other distributors at prices lower than the manufacturers’ list prices. The Company depends on the availability of multi-tiered priced products from other distributors at costs that are lower than the manufacturers’ list prices. The reduction of availability of lower-priced product costs could negatively impact the Company’s gross margins. If the Company cannot obtain prices from other distributors that are lower than the manufacturers’ list prices, the Company’s gross margin and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If the government allows hospitals or GPOs to provide free hardware and software to physician offices, the Company’s ability to distribute medical supplies may be threatened. Hospitals and GPOs may offer free goods or service, such as hardware and software, to physician offices in order to entice the physicians to conduct business with them. As a result, physicians may gain direct access to hospital contracts and pricing and may have the hospitals perform the purchasing function directly. This may threaten the Company’s ability to compete effectively which would in turn negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The ability to maintain good relations with vendors may affect the Company’s overall profitability. Currently, the Company relies on vendors to provide, among other things: • field sales representatives’ technical and selling support; • acceptable purchasing, pricing, and delivery terms; • sales performance incentives; • financial support of sales and marketing programs; • promotional materials; and • product availability. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in maintaining good relations with its vendors. The Company depends heavily on significant distributorship agreements and the termination of any agreements may reduce the Company’s net sales and results of operations. The Company has unique distribution agreements with approximately 2,300 vendors. The Company relies on these vendors to manufacture and supply these products. None of the vendors accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated inventory purchases during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, April 1, 2005, and April 2, 2004. However, if any significant distribution agreement between the Company and a vendor is terminated, the Company’s net sales and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Physician Business’ net sales and results of operations may be negatively impacted by the Company’s inability to obtain influenza vaccines. Net sales during the fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were negatively impacted by Chiron Corporation’s (“Chiron”) inability to supply the Fluvirin® influenza vaccine to the U.S. market. Currently, Chiron is the Company’s 20 Table of Contents primary supplier of the influenza vaccine. Net sales may be negatively impacted in the future as a result of partial or non-delivery of the expected doses of the influenza vaccines. Partial or non-delivery of the expected doses of the influenza vaccines may also negatively impact customer relationships. The Company must hire and retain qualified sales representatives to continue its sales growth. The Company’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers is dependent upon hiring new sales representatives, retaining existing sales representatives, and offering competitive compensation to sales representatives. Customer relationships are at risk if a sales representative ceases employment with the Company. This is particularly a risk where the representative seeks employment with a competitor. The Company has increased the use of employment agreements containing restrictive covenants which protect the Company’s legitimate business interests. However, these agreements have not been obtained from all sales representatives. In addition, the terms of these agreements in certain states may not be enforceable. The Company may not be able to obtain an agreement from each such employee. The inability to adequately hire or retain sales representatives could limit the Company’s ability to expand its business and increase sales. The Company must retain the services of senior management. The Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of senior management, particularly the executive management team. In addition, the Company is also dependent upon the operations and sales managers at each distribution center because of the decentralized operating structure. Although the Company maintains key man life insurance for its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and the chief operating officer, the loss of services of one or more of its members of senior management may adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining other key personnel. The Company’s strategy for growth may not result in additional net sales or operating income and may have an adverse effect on working capital, operating cash flow, and results of operations. The Company seeks to increase revenues and operating income by: • expanding product offerings; • expanding sales support services; • expanding sales force for home care customers; • expanding sales force productivity; • developing innovative marketing and distribution programs; • maintaining and expanding vendor incentive programs; • expanding e-commerce initiatives and development; • leveraging its infrastructure and information systems; • improving distribution capability and efficiency through systems development and implementation; • improving supply chain efficiency through centralization and systems implementation; and • improving operating margins through the global product sourcing initiative. These business strategies for growth will result in increased costs and expenses. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business strategy for growth will result in additional net sales or operating income. In addition, the implementation of the Company’s business strategy for growth may have an adverse effect on working capital, operating cash flow, and results of operations. The Company’s operations and prospects in Asia are subject to political, economic and legal uncertainties. The Company is currently executing a global sourcing strategic initiative whereby certain products will be purchased directly from Asian manufacturers. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in the political, social or economic environment in Asia. 21 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, the imposition of surcharges or any material increase in tax rates, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to conduct business and its results of operations. The operating costs of the Company’s delivery fleet could increase due to fuel price fluctuations and/or service interruptions by third parties. The Company’s operating costs are affected by increases or fluctuations in the cost of gasoline and diesel fuel. Products are delivered to customers either by the Company-leased delivery fleet or a third party, common carrier. The Physician and Elder Care Businesses currently operate a delivery fleet of over 500 vehicles and management considers the deployment of this fleet to be one of the Company’s competitive advantages. Significant increases in the cost of fuel have impacted the Company’s cost to deliver product to customer and the operating costs of common carriers. Some of these common carriers have passed these increases through to the Company in the form of a fuel surcharge, which has had an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, significant increases in the cost of fuel may increase the landed cost of product obtained from vendors due to increased inbound freight costs as well as increased shipping costs for globally sourced product. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by third party, common carriers may cause an increase in the Company’s operating expenses and adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products on a timely basis. Management anticipates that rising fuel costs may continue to negatively impact gross margin, the cost to deliver, or expected improvements in cost to deliver in future periods. The fuel surcharge implemented during fiscal year 2006 is expected to offset a portion of this negative impact. If the Company is unable to successfully recover increased costs due to increased fuel prices and surcharges from third parties from its customers, the Company’s operating costs may be negatively affected. The Company’s significant investment in inventory may be exposed to risk of product obsolescence or decline in market valuation. In order to provide prompt and complete service to customers, the Company maintains a significant investment in inventory at its full-service distribution centers and redistribution centers. Inventory control procedures and policies are in place to monitor the risk of product obsolescence or declining market prices. Nevertheless, management cannot assure that: • such procedures and policies will continue to be effective; • the demand for certain product lines will continue; • unforeseen product development or price changes will not occur; or • the write-off of any unsold inventory in the future will not be significant. In addition, inventory purchased as a result of a business combination may include different product lines that are not normally distributed by the Company. These product lines may be difficult to sell and, therefore, may result in a write-off if such inventory is not saleable in the future. Any inventory write-offs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Business acquisitions may decrease existing shareholders’ percentage ownership in the Company and/or require the Company to incur additional debt. Future acquisitions or investments may be financed by the issuance of equity securities that would increase the number of outstanding common shares and may decrease earnings per share. As a result, the market price of the Company’s common stock may decline. Additionally, the Company may incur additional debt to finance an acquisition that could result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock. Furthermore, 22 Table of Contents amortization expense related to identifiable intangible assets may significantly reduce profitability and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. If difficulties are encountered while integrating the operations of acquired companies with the operations of the Company, profitability may be adversely affected. The Company may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies and realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits in a timely manner. Integration of an acquired company may be difficult when the acquired business is in a market in which the Company has limited or no expertise, or has a different corporate culture. If the operations of acquired companies are not successfully integrated, the Company may: • incur substantial costs and delays; • experience operational, technical, or financial problems; • divert management’s attention and other resources away from the day-to-day operations; and • damage relationships with key customers and employees. If the operations of acquired companies are not successfully integrated with the operations of the Company in an efficient manner, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s indebtedness may limit its ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may limit its flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions. The Company maintains an asset-based revolving line of credit (“LOC”), which permits maximum borrowings of up to $200 million. The maximum borrowings may be increased to $250 million at the Company’s discretion. Availability of borrowings depends upon a borrowing base calculation consisting of accounts receivable and inventory, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility requirements less any outstanding letters of credit. Any deterioration in the realizability of these assets could reduce the availability of borrowings under the LOC. At March 31, 2006, there were no outstanding borrowings under the LOC and the Company had sufficient assets based on eligible accounts receivable and inventories to borrow up to an additional $199.6 million. Increases in the level of the Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and reduce the Company’s ability to: • obtain additional financing in the future for working capital requirements; • make capital expenditures; • acquire businesses; and • react to changes in the industry and economic conditions in general. Operating cash requirements are normally funded by borrowings under the LOC and cash flows from operating activities. The Company expects that sources of capital to fund future growth in the business will be provided by a combination of cash flows from operating activities, borrowings under the LOC, capital markets, and/or other financing arrangements. However, changes in capital markets or adverse changes to the Company’s operations may disrupt the Company’s ability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to service the indebtedness, the Company will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include the following options: • reduce or delay acquisitions and capital expenditures; • sell assets; • restructure or refinance existing indebtedness; and • seek additional equity capital. 23 Table of Contents The price of the Company’s common stock and the trading value of the convertible senior notes may be volatile. The Company’s common stock experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. Trading prices of the Company’s common stock may be influenced by operating results, projections, and economic, financial, regulatory and other factors. In addition, general market conditions, including the level of, and fluctuations in, the trading prices of stocks generally, could affect the price of the Company’s common stock. The market price of the convertible senior notes (“Notes”) is expected to be significantly affected by the market price of the Company’s common stock as well as the general level of interest rates and the Company’s credit quality. This may result in a significantly greater volatility in the trading value of the Notes than would be expected for nonconvertible debt securities the Company may issue. The price of the Company’s common stock also could be affected by possible sales of the Company’s common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in the Company and by hedging or arbitrage activity that management expects to develop involving the Company’s common stock as a result of the issuance of the Notes. The hedging or arbitrage activity, in turn, could affect the trading prices of the Notes. Tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect the Company’s net earnings and tax liabilities. The Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States Federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Company’s tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States Federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although the Company believes that its historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that the Company’s tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in any such challenge. The Company faces litigation and liability exposure for existing and potential claims. The Company is subject to various legal and administrative proceedings and claims arising in the normal course of business, which are described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The outcomes of such proceedings or claims that are unasserted, pending, or known to be threatened could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company faces litigation risk exposure to product liability and other claims. The Company is primarily a distributor of medical products, equipment, and pharmaceutical related products. As a result, there is a risk that injury or other liability arising from the use or transportation of the products may occur and result in litigation against the Company. Accordingly, the Company maintains various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, to cover such exposure at amounts that management considers to be adequate. Additionally, in many cases the Company may be indemnified by the manufacturer of the product for any product liability claims. There can be no assurance that the coverage maintained by the Company under various insurance policies is sufficient to cover future claims or are available in adequate amounts at a reasonable cost. In addition, there can be no assurance that the indemnification agreements provided by manufacturers will adequately protect the Company; particularly the enforceability of indemnification provisions provided by overseas vendors for globally-sourced products. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance or 24 Table of Contents indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company, could harm the Company’s business, reputation, and results of operations. The Company faces risk that proprietary rights may infringe on the rights of third parties. The Company believes that its private-label products and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. However, from time-to-time, third parties may assert infringement claims against the Company. If the Company was found to be infringing on other’s rights, the Company may be required to pay substantial damage awards, obtain a license, or cease selling the products that contain the infringing property. Such actions may be significant and result in material losses to the Company. If environmental claims arise, the Company could incur substantial liabilities and costs. The Company’s operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental matters. As such, the Company may be responsible for the investigation and remediation of property contaminated by hazardous, toxic, or other chemical substances, regardless of whether the Company is responsible for such contamination. The costs of such investigation and remediation requirements may be substantial. In addition, the Company could be held liable to governmental entities or third parties for any property damage, personal injury, and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. These costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, the costs of complying with more stringent standards, as well as any liabilities associated with noncompliance with such standards imposed on the Company, may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. If management fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, the Company may not be able to accurately report its financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports, its business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of its common stock. The Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, Rights Agreement, and Florida law may inhibit a takeover of the Company or could deprive the Company’s shareholders of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their shares. The Company’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and Florida law contain provisions that may delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition that might otherwise result in the Company’s shareholders receiving a takeover premium for their shares. This could occur even if shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares of common stock or if a substantial number or even a majority of the Company’s shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring the Company to negotiate with and obtain the approval of the Board of Directors in connection with any transaction. A staggered Board of Directors, the State of Florida’s Affiliated Transaction Statute, or the State of Florida’s Control-Share Acquisition Statute could delay, deter, or inhibit potential offers to acquire the Company. In addition, the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future and that may be senior to the rights of holders of common stock. On April 20, 1998, the Board of Directors approved a Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement that provides for one preferred stock purchase right in respect of each share of common stock. These rights become exercisable upon a person or group of affiliated persons acquiring 15% or 25 Table of Contents more of the Company’s then-outstanding common stock by all persons other than an existing 15% shareholder. This Rights Agreement also could discourage bids for shares of common stock at a premium and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. The Company’s business, marketing activities, and pricing are subject to review by federal or state agencies. The health care industry is highly regulated and the Company is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”), the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), CMS, the State Attorney General, State Medicaid fraud units, and other comparable agencies. The Company’s global product sourcing initiatives have increased the Company’s exposure to these regulatory agencies. Certain of the Company’s distribution service centers may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, HHS, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing, and sale. Although the Company believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of the Company’s operations with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or renew existing permits and licenses or obtain, without significant delay, future permits and licenses needed for the operation of the Company’s businesses. The noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if changes were to occur to the laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s businesses, such changes could adversely affect many of the Company’s regulated operations, which include distributing pharmaceuticals. Also, the health care regulatory environment may change in a manner that could restrict the Company’s existing operations, limit the expansion of the Company’s businesses, apply regulations to previously unregulated businesses or otherwise affect the Company adversely. Although the Company attempts to comply with law and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of medical products and supplies, such standards are rapidly developing and often subject to multiple interpretations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse affect on the Company, including criminal and civil penalties, administrative sanctions, fines, and other adverse actions, including but not limited to exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other Federal and state health care programs. Furthermore, the circumvention or disregard by Company employees of Federal and state regulations pertaining to filing claims for health care reimbursement by employees or customers could subject the Company to risk. The distribution of controlled pharmaceutical products by the Physician Business is subject to review by federal agencies. On September 30, 2005, the Physician Business acquired Southern Anesthesia & Surgical, Inc., a distributor of controlled and non-controlled pharmaceuticals as well as medical supplies to office-based physicians and surgery centers in all 50 states. As a result, the Company must comply with DEA regulations when purchasing, handling or selling Schedule II, III, IV and V Drugs and List I Chemicals including ephedrine and Pseudoephedrine. The DEA conducts regular routine inspections of facilities holding DEA permits. Failure to comply with the regulations governing Scheduled Drugs and Listed Chemicals could subject the Company to adverse actions by its customers and suppliers and could subject the Company to substantial fines or penalties and other sanctions, including prohibiting the Company from purchasing, handling, and distributing such products. An adverse determination regarding the Company’s compliance with the DEA regulations relating to physical security, 26 Table of Contents record-keeping and required reporting requirement, brought by either the government or a private individual, could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Medicare Part B billing services provided by the Elder Care Business is subject to review by federal agencies. The Elder Care Business provides Medicare Part B reimbursable products and billing services, either on a fee-for-service or a full-assignment basis. As a result, the Company must comply with laws and regulations governed by Medicare, Medicaid, other federal health care programs, managed care or third-party payor regarding billing, coding, claim submission, and coverage. Failure to comply with Medicare, Medicaid, other federal programs, managed care or third party payor reimbursement, or financial reporting regulations, or otherwise committing healthcare fraud, may subject the Company to adverse actions by its clients, the government, or private payors. These adverse actions may result in delays or lost reimbursement, recoupment of amounts previously paid, and could subject the Company to substantial fines or penalties, and other sanctions, including exclusion from participation in any federal health care program. The government is actively involved in investigation of allegations of health care fraud. In addition, the Federal False Claims Act creates a financial incentive for private individuals, called whistleblowers, to bring suit on behalf of the government to recover funds paid pursuant to a false claim, which may include failure to comply with technical requirements for claim submission, coding, and billing. An adverse determination regarding the Company’s compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other Federal health care program’s billing, coding, claim submission, and coverage requirements, brought by either the government or a private individual, could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase the Physician Business’ operating costs and reduce profitability. In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the integrity of the supply channel that affects the purchase, sale, and shipment of pharmaceutical products. For example, Florida and other states are implementing pedigree requirements that require wholesalers to provide healthcare providers access to paperwork tracing drugs back to the manufacturers. These and other requirements may increase the Company’s cost of operations. As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the healthcare delivery industry in the United States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes. Management cannot predict which reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on the Company. Furthermore, the costs associated with complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws could adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. The Company is subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with the Company, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the non-U.S. countries in which the Company conducts business. The Company has implemented safeguards to prevent and discourage such practices by employees and agents. The Company can make no assurance, however, that employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which the Company might be held responsible. If employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, the Company could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is also subject to the Patriot Act and other anti-boycott and reporting laws. Failure to comply with these laws could subject the Company, its 27 Table of Contents employees or other agents to penalties and other adverse consequences that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of fiscal year 2006 and that remain unresolved. 28 Table of Contents 