D. RISK FACTORS We conduct our operations through two main segments. Through our Cellocator segment, we design, develop and produce leading mobile resource management products, that include asset tracking, fleet management and security products for sale to third party operators providing mobile resource management services in Europe, Latin America, Asia and Israel, and to our Pointer segment. Through our Pointer segment, we act as an operator primarily in Israel, Argentina and Mexico by bundling our products together with a range of services, including stolen vehicle retrieval services and fleet management services, and also provide road-side assistance services in Israel for sale to insurance companies, fleets and individual customers. 8 This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. Risk Factors relating to our Cellocator Segment Manufacturing of products by our Cellocator segment is highly complex, and an interruption by suppliers, subcontractors or vendors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The products that we market, distribute and sell through our Cellocator segment are either manufactured or assembled at our own facility in Israel or, in certain cases, manufactured through supply agreements with third party subcontractors in Israel and abroad. Many of our products are the result of complex manufacturing processes, and are sometimes dependent on raw materials with a limited source of supply. As a result, we can provide no assurances that supply sources will not be interrupted from time to time. In addition, our subcontractors or vendors may fail to obtain supply components and fail to deliver our products. As a result, a failure to deliver by our subcontractors or vendors can result in decreased revenues. Such interruption or delay of our suppliers to deliver components or i nterruption or delay of our vendors or subcontractors to deliver our products could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The growth of our business depends on the success of our products Our growth depends on the continued success of our existing products, as well as the successful design and introduction of new products. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and business trends. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, we may have to invest more resources in development than we originally intended, marketing can be longer than expected and there is no assurance of successful development or increased returns from a potential market, which may adversely affect our business. Undetected defects in our products may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. The development, enhancement and implementation of the complex products of our Cellocator segment entail substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or future products, resulting in delay or loss of revenues, warranty expense, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance, severe damage to our reputation or any other adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the complexities involved in implementing our products entail additional risks of performance failures. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 We rely on operators to market and deliver the products of our Cellocator segment. Our revenues from consecutive end unit sales, future system upgrades, future infrastructure extensions and other sources, where applicable, are from countries in which third party operators, as well as the Pointer segment acting as an operator, conduct stolen vehicle recovery and fleet management services and are therefore dependent on their penetration rate and successful sale growth as well as the operators’ continuous success and their continuous decision to offer these products in their respective territories. Should we fail to maintain relationships with these third party operators, or these operators fail to successfully market and service our products, our business would be adversely affected. Our Cellocator segment relies on limited suppliers to manufacture devices for our stolen vehicle retrieval and fleet management systems (also referred to as Mobile Resource Management Solutions). While we commenced to diversify our product base, offering some customers radio frequency devices and others cellular units together with GPS devices, we are still principally reliant on devices and components which we do not manufacture ourselves. Most of our raw material components for the devices in our Cellocator products are manufactured for us by independent manufacturers abroad. Surface mounting on printed circuit boards is performed by two sub-contractors. Assembly is performed by us and by a subcontractor located in Israel. There is no certainty that these subcontractors will be able to continue to provide us with manufacturing and assembly services in the future. Our reliance on independent contractors, especially those located in foreign countries, involves a number of risks, including: · reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost; · reduced manufacturing flexibility due to last moment quantity changes; · transportation delays; · political and economic disruptions; · the imposition of tariffs and export controls on such products; · work stoppages; · changes in government policies; · the loss of molds and tooling in the event of a dispute with a manufacturer; and · the loss of time, when attempting to switch from one assembly-manufacturer to another, thereby disrupting deliveries to customers. Our agreements and understandings with our suppliers are generally short-term in nature and may be terminated with little or no notice. If a supplier of ours were to terminate its relationship with us, we may be compelled to seek additional sources to manufacture certain of the components of our systems or even to change the design of our products. Although we believe that most of the components of our systems may be readily acquired from numerous suppliers, we cannot assure you that we would be successful in entering into arrangements with other suitable independent manufacturers without significantly impairing our sales in the interim period. 10 We are subject to several risks as a result of the international sales of our Cellocator segment. Systems based on our products are currently installed in Israel, Latin America, Europe and Asia, while the majority of our products are sold outside of Israel. We are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including changes in the political and economic environment, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. In addition, if for any reason, exchange, price controls or other restrictions on conversion of foreign currencies were to be imposed, the operations of our Cellocator segment could be negatively impacted. In some of our international operations, we experienced the following difficulties: · longer sales cycles, especially upon entry into a new geographic market; · foreign exchange controls and licenses; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs; · currency fluctuations; · economic or political instability; · international tax aspects; · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; and · difficulty in managing our overseas subsidiaries and affiliates We may not be able to successfully compete in the extremely competitive markets for our products. In Europe, Latin America and Asia our Cellocator segment sells mostly GPS/GPRS based vehicle devices and radio frequency based vehicle devices. In the GPS/GPRS field there is strong competition with many manufacturers introducing vehicle devices with competitive prices and various performance features. These devices are offered to operators that provide fleet management and stolen vehicle recovery services and the competition is with respect to different aspects such as price, performance parameters, etc. Should any of our competitors successfully provide a broader range of products, with competitive pricing, our business results could be materially adversely affected. While we plan to continue improving our technology and products, and maintain our marketing efforts, we cannot guarantee that we will increase or maintain our customer base. 11 We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. Our success and our ability to compete in sales of products by our Cellocator segment depend on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of proprietary technology, know-how and trade secret laws, together with non-disclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. We cannot assure you that these efforts will successfully protect our technology due to the following factors: · the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the extent that it is protected by the laws of the United States; · unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology that we regard as proprietary; · if a competitor were to infringe on our proprietary rights, enforcing our rights may be time consuming and costly, diverting management’s attention and our resources; · measures like entering into non-disclosure agreements afford only limited protection; and · our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology, duplicate our technologies or design around our intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against us. The cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. Risk Factors relating to our Pointer Segment We may not be able to successfully compete in the extremely competitive markets for our services. We face intense competition in the markets in which we offer our services. Although we are currently the leading road-side assistance and towing service provider in Israel, our primary competitors in providing such services are Drachim Road Side & Towing Services Ltd., Femi Premium Ltd. and Shlomo-SIXT Road Side Services & Garages Ltd. In the Stolen vehicle retrieval services market, our main direct competitor in Israel is Ituran Location & Control Ltd, and our main competitors in Argentina and Mexico are LoJack - Car Security S.A. and LoJack de Mexico, S. de RL de CV, respectively. In fleet management services market, we face competition from several companies in Argentina and Mexico. Should any of our competitors successfully provide a broader, more efficient or attractive combination of services to insurance companies, automobile owners and fleets, our business results could be materially adversely affected. 12 Our prospects for growth in the stolen vehicle retrieval services and mobile resource management services market in Israel, Argentina and Mexico may be limited. Due to the significant penetration of stolen vehicle retrieval services and mobile resource management services to the Israeli market, and the moderate overall growth of these markets in Israel, Argentina and Mexico, we anticipate that revenues from sales of our stolen vehicle retrieval services and mobile resource management services will not increase significantly in Israel and Argentina, which could adversely affect our prospects for growth in such markets. We rely on third party operators to provide our services in certain countries In countries in which our subsidiaries conduct activities, we rely on subcontractors and police forces to provide our stolen vehicle retrieval services. This requires us to maintain solid relationships with these third party operators and governmental entities to ensure that they continue to work with us and provide a good service to our customers. Since we do not own these third party operators, we have little or no control over their effectiveness or methods of operation. Should we fail to maintain relationships with these third party operators, or these operators fail to successfully market and service our products, our business would be adversely affected. In offering our services, we use fixed price contracts with our customers. Our road-side services in Israel are offered at annually or monthly fixed price contracts, according to which we are generally paid a fixed price by insurance companies for each of their customers who subscribe to receive our services. Should operational expenses rise due to factors such as a rise in the price of gasoline, labor costs or any other materials necessary for our operations, our profit margins could suffer as a result. Since it is often difficult to predict future price rises in the cost of raw materials or labor costs, our fixed price contracts may not adequately cover our future outlays. Additionally, the frequency by which subscribers may take advantage of our road-side services can vary unpredictably. Sustained adverse weather conditions, increased regional hostilities or acts of terrorism, poor road maintenance or inc reased theft ratio may increase customer usage of our services in any given year, thus reducing profit margins. Most of the stolen vehicle retrieval services and fleet management services provided by our Pointer segment are offered at monthly fixed price contracts, according to which we are paid a fixed price by insurance companies, for each of their customers who subscribe to receive our services, and commercial customers. Should operational expenses rise due to factors such as a rise in the price of labor costs or any other materials necessary for our operations, our profit margins could suffer as a result. Since it is often difficult to predict future price rises in the cost of raw materials or labor costs, our fixed price contracts may not adequately cover our future outlays. 13 General Risk Factors Relating to Our Company Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders have a history of losses. With the exception of the years 2008, 2006 and 2003, Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders incurred a loss in each year of the Company's existence. Net income attributable to Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders was $2.3 million in 2008, resulting from activities in the ordinary course of business. Net income attributable to Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders was $1.2 million in 2006, principally resulting from continuing operations of $0.3 million and other income of $1.3 million off-set by impairment of long lived assets of $0.4 million. Net income attributable to Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders was $5.3 million in 2003, resulting from a one-time non-cash capital gain of $8.5 million from the disposal of discontinued operations and was offset by a $3.3 million loss from continuing operations. Prior to 2004, our majority owned subsidiary, Shagrir Systems Ltd. ("Shagrir"), had never recorded net profits but has recorded shareholders’ equity surplus for the first time in 2006. In 2009 a loss of $2.1 million was attributable to Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders. Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders may continue to sustain net losses for the foreseeable future, for several reasons, including increase in working capital deficiency (see Item 5—Liquidity and Capital Resources) and costs associated with other business initiatives in Israel and abroad. As a part of our strategy, we are focusing on the development of new businesses, products, technology and services, in the territories in which we currently operate as well as in new territories. Investing in such new businesses may result in an increase in short term losses. If Pointer Telocation Ltd. shareholders may continue to sustain prolonged losses or losses from continuing operations, we may have to cease our operations. Conditions and changes in the global economic environment may adversely affect our business and financial results. The worldwide economy has recently been adversely affected by stock market volatility, tightening of credit markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. These events and related uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our customers and, among other things, postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and jeopardize or delay their ability or willingness to make payment obligations, any of which could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also cause volatility of our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. 0; In addition, the worldwide automotive industries are cyclical in nature and are currently experiencing a significant downturn, particularly in the United States and Europe. Although we do not currently operate in the United States and although our business is not solely dependent on new car sales, the industry as a whole has been adversely affected by many factors, including the current global downturn, efforts by insurance and leasing companies to reduce their spending and increased competition. These factors, among other things, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If the current downturns in the general economy and the automotive industries sector do not improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 14 A decline in sales of consumer or commercial vehicles in the markets in which we operate could result in reduced demand for our products and services. Our stolen vehicle retrieval and mobile resource management products are primarily installed before or immediately after the initial sale of consumer or commercial vehicles. Consequently, a reduction in sales of new vehicles could reduce our applicable market for stolen vehicle retrieval and mobile resource management products, and, consequentially, reduce the market for stolen vehicle retrieval services and mobile resource management services which utilize our products. New vehicle sales may decline for various reasons, including an increase in new vehicle tariffs, taxes or gas prices, or an increased difficulty in obtaining credit or financing in the applicable local or global economy. A decline in sales of new vehicles in the markets in which our Cellocator segment and Pointer segment operate could result in reduced demand for our products and services. The introduction of products using new technology and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could negatively impact our business. The wireless communications industry as a whole and specifically GPRS is characterized by rapid technological changes. The introduction of products using new technology and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could make our products less competitive and cause us to reduce the prices of our products. There are several wireless communications technologies, including cellular telephone, WiMax, personal communications services, specialized mobile radio and mobile satellite services which have been or may be implemented in the future for applications competitive with the applications we provide. Future implementation and technological improvements could lead to the production of systems and services which are competitive with, or superior to ours. We cannot give any assurance that we will timely or successfully introduce or develop new or enhanced products and services, which will effectively compete with new systems available in the market. Our business will be negatively impacted if we do not introduce or develop technologically competitive products and services that respond to customer needs and are priced competitively. We depend on a small number of customers. We depend on a small number of customers located mainly in Israel, Latin America and Europe for a significant part of our revenues, and our future depends on our ability to maintain our existing customers and attract new customers. Following our acquisition of the activities of Shagrir Towing Services, the customers which account for the majority of the revenues of Shagrir are Israeli insurance companies which offer our road-side assistance and towing services as part of their vehicle insurance policy packages which they sell to their customers, as well as Argentine insurance companies which require their customers to obtain stolen vehicle retrieval services as part of their vehicle insurance policy packages. Followi ng our acquisition of Cellocator, the customers who account for the majority of the revenues from the products of our Cellocator segment are a small number of operators located in Europe and Latin America. Although in 2009 none of our customers comprised over 10% of our total revenues, the loss of even a small number of customers could materially affect our financial condition. 15 If the creditworthiness or the financial strength of the customers were to decline, there could be an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Should geopolitical situations change in the countries where our customers operate, there could be additional credit risks. The use of our products is subject to international regulations. The use of our products is subject to regulatory approvals of government agencies in each of the countries in which our systems are operated by our Pointer segment or by other operators, including the State of Israel. Our operators typically must obtain authorization from each country in which our systems and products are installed. While, in general, operators have not experienced problems in obtaining regulatory approvals to date, the regulatory schemes in each country are different and may change from time to time. We cannot guarantee that approvals which our operators and our Pointer segment have obtained will remain sufficient in the view of regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that operators of our systems and products will obtain licenses and approvals on a timely basis in all jurisdictions in which we wish to sell our systems or that restrictions on the use of our systems will not be unduly burdensome. Our future operations depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. We have historically financed our operations through public and private placements of equity and debt securities, cash generated from the sales of our systems, grants for research and development projects, loans and bank credit lines. We believe that our current assets, together with anticipated cash generated from operations and outstanding bank credit lines, will sufficiently allow us to continue our operations as a going concern for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot assure that if we are required to raise additional financing in the future that we will be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, if at all, and if we are able to raise financing through the issuance of shares, this may result in the dilution of the interests of our current shareholders. In a series of investments, since March 2003 to date, we rai sed $42 million from investors. We have registered for resale securities issued and issuable in connection with such investments in our securities (for further information regarding the private placement transactions see Item 10 – Material Contracts). In May 2007 our registration statement on Form F-3 was declared effective, pursuant to an investment with a group of U.S. institutional investors consummated in April 2007, covering 1,207,500 of our ordinary shares (including 402,500 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants issued in connection with that transaction). As a result of the registration statements that we currently have outstanding and are currently filing, many or all of our investors who purchased our securities may elect to sell some or all of our securities. Should such sales be significant in volume or take place over a short period of time, our share price may decline significantly, and we may find it difficult to rai se additional funding through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities. If our future capital requirements are greater than the cash we obtain from our business and available financing, if any, we may, among other things, be required to significantly reduce our research, development, product commercialization, marketing or other activities or even cease operations. 16 Over recent years, the securities markets in general have experienced increased volatility, which has particularly affected the securities and operations of many companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies, they may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities markets in general may affect our ability to obtain additional financing at favorable terms. Pointer and Shagrir have significant loans which they are required to repay in accordance with strict schedules that they may not be able to meet or that limit our operating and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2009, Shagrir has in the aggregate approximately $17.2 million in outstanding loans to Bank Hapoalim. Despite the fact that Shagrir is cash positive, should Shagrir fail to repay the loans in accordance with the repayment schedule pertaining to each loan or should Bank Hapoalim refuse to amend the relevant repayment schedule, Bank Hapoalim may realize certain liens that were created in its favor by Shagrir. This could result in Shagrir having to divest itself of parts of its business and may result in the cessation of its operations. As of December 31, 2009, Pointer has in the aggregate approximately $3.8 million in outstanding loans to Bank Hapoalim, credit facilities of $2 million (which have not been utilized), as well as a debenture in the amount of $2.1 million. While Pointer is expected to remain cash-positive, should Pointer fail to repay the loans and the debenture in accordance with the repayment schedule pertaining to each loan or if Bank Hapoalim refuses to amend the relevant repayment schedule, Bank Hapoalim may realize certain liens that were created in its favor, which in turn may have a material adverse affect on Pointer's financial condition. In January 2008 Pointer entered into credit facilities for the aggregate amount of $1 million with Israel Discount Bank B.M., in order to finance its working capital. As of December 31, 2009, none of these credit facilities were utilized. The credit facilities and loans described above contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit the operating and financial flexibility of Pointer and Shagrir. Please see Notes 10c and 10d to our consolidated financial statements for further information. The covenants are required to be met on an annual basis. Failure to comply with any of the covenants could lead to an event of default under the agreements governing some or all of the credit facilities and loans, permitting the applicable lender to accelerate all borrowings. As of December 31, 2009, Pointer was not in compliance with one of the restrictive financial covenants and received a waiver from Bank Hapoalim and Bank Discount from compliance with this covenant for 2009. 17 Our ability to continue to comply with these and other obligations depends in part on the future performance of our business. There can be no assurance that such obligations will not materially adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business. In particular, any noncompliance with performance-related covenants and other undertakings of our credit facilities could result in an acceleration of our outstanding debt under our credit facilities and restrict our ability to obtain additional funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information on the loans described above, please see Item 4 – Recent Developments, Item 5 – Liquidity and Capital Resources and Item 10 – Material Contracts. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable assets become impaired. Our balance sheet contains a significant amount of goodwill and other amortizable intangible assets in long-term assets, totaling about $60.2 million at December 31, 2009. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually and potentially more frequently in the event that indicators for potential impairment exists. We review our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a sustained decline in our stock price, market capitalization or future cash flows, slower growth rates in our industry, termination of contracts assumed in connection with a merger or acquisition and obsolescence of acquired technology. In particular, the severity of the current worldwide economic downturn and the potential impact of this downturn on our business and our s tock price could require us to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements due to impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets. If that happens, then our results of operations will be negatively impacted for the period in which such determination was made. In 2009 we amortized $3 million of customer related intangible assets attributable to our acquisition of Cellocator due to the decrease in activity of former customers of Cellocator as a result of the worldwide economic downturn. The Argentine government may enact or enforce measures to preempt or respond to social unrest or economic turmoil which may adversely affect our business in Argentina. Our subsidiary, Pointer Localizacion Y Asistencia S.A., or PLA, operates in Argentina, where government has historically exercised significant influence over the country’s economy. In 2008, Argentina faced nationwide strikes and protests from farmers due to increased export taxes on agricultural products, which disrupted economic activity and have heightened political tension. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, customs duties and levies including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the coun try and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. In addition, agreements with unions in Argentina may increase the minimum wages and salaries or impose other conditions which could adversely effect PLA's business. 18 Any inability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal control attestation may negatively impact the report on our financial statements to be provided by our independent auditors. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404(a) of the United States Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management report assessing the Company’s effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20−F. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management does conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, pursuant to Section 404 (b), as a non-accelerated filler, we will be required to provide an independent auditor’s attestation report in our annual reports on Form 20-F as of the year ending December 31, 201 0. If our independent accountants are dissatisfied with our internal controls, the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if they interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, they may issue an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting at such time applicable rules require our accountants to provide such an opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our shares. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and re−evaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. We may not be able to retain or attract key managerial, technical and research and development personnel that we need to succeed. Our success has largely depended and will depend in the future on our ability to retain skilled professional and technical personnel and to attract additional qualified personnel in the future. The competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain our present personnel, or recruit additional qualified personnel, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Our major shareholder has a controlling stake in our company and affiliated with three members of our board of directors. Pursuant to a series of investments in the Company since March 2003, and the exercise of certain warrants, DBSI Investments Ltd., or DBSI, currently owns approximately 37.4% of our issued and outstanding shares, or 32.0% on a fully diluted basis. As a result, DBSI has the ability to control material decisions requiring the approval of our shareholders. Our board of directors currently consists of 6 members, of which three are affiliated with DBSI. As a result, DBSI has the ability to affect the decisions made by our full board of directors. Risk Factors Relating to our Ordinary Shares We do not expect to distribute cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors will decide whether to declare any cash dividends in the future based on the conditions then existing, including our earnings and financial condition, and subject to the provisions of the Israeli Companies Law. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits, so long as the company reasonably believes that such dividend distribution will not prevent the company from paying all its current and future debts. Profits, for purposes of the Israeli Companies Law, means the greater of retained earnings or earnings accumulated during the preceding two years. The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and may continue to be, very volatile. The market prices of our ordinary shares have fluctuated widely. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: · changes in the global financial markets and U.S. and Israeli stock markets relating to turbulence amid stock market volatility, tightening of credit markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and general liquidity concerns; · macro changes and changes in market share in the markets in which we provide services and products; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; · publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to services rendered by us or our competitors; · regulatory development in the United States, Israel and other countries; · events or announcements relating to our collaborative relationship with others; · economic, political and other external factors; 20 · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; and · substantial sales by significant shareholders of our ordinary shares which are currently or are in the process of being registered. In addition, the securities markets in general have experienced volatility, which has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Our ordinary shares may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly in price. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Our ordinary shares are traded on these markets in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ and New Israeli Shekels on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Trading in our ordinary shares has been limited and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders' ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods, or possibly at all. Thinly traded ordinary shares can be more volatile than ordinary shares traded in an active public market. The average daily trading volume of our ordinary shares from Januar y 1, 2010 to February 28, 2010 was 5,679 shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market and 3,161 shares on the TASE. The high and low bid price of our ordinary shares from January 1, 2010 to February 28, 2010 has been 7.52 and 6.41 respectively on the NASDAQ Capital Market and between NIS 29.94 (approximately $7.9) and NIS 23.72 (approximately $ 6.3) during the same period on the TASE. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets are expected to often differ, as a result of the factors described above and differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Corporate governance controversies and new legislation in the United States could increase the cost of our operations. As a result of corporate governance controversies in the United States and the legislative and litigation environment resulting from those controversies, the costs of being a public company in general have increased and may continue to increase in the near future. Legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has had and may continue to have the effect of increasing the burdens and potential liabilities of being a public reporting company. This and other proposed legislation may increase the costs of compliance with this legislation and our insurance premiums. 21 Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Political, Military and Economic Conditions in Israel affect our operations. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Our headquarters, the headquarters of Shagrir and the Cellocator segment, are located in Israel, as well as the majority of the business activities of Shagrir and the manufacturing operations of our Cellocator segment, which account for the majority of our revenues. Consequentially, we are directly affected by the political, military and economic conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a state of hostility has existed between Israel and the Arab countries in the region. This state of hostility has varied in degree and intensity over time. There has also been conflict and unrest between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and certain terrorist groups operating within the Palestinian Authority and Lebanon. A significant increase in violence began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity through 2009, the most severe of which was Israel’s war with the Hizbullah militant group in July and August of 2006. In addition, in December 2008 and January 2009 there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, whic h resulted in missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel. While such previous hostilities did not have a material adverse impact on our business, we cannot guarantee that hostilities will not be renewed and have such an effect in the future. The political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Since our manufacturing facilities are located mainly in Israel, we could experience disruption of our manufacturing due to acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel. Furthermore, many of our employees and subcontractors are located in Israel, which could still face a renewal of civil unrest, terrorist activity and military action. Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we could experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities. Our busin ess interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot give any assurance that security and political conditions will not have such an effect in the future. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. 22 Any downturn in the Israeli economy may have a significant impact on our business. Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early to mid-1980’s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. The revenues of Shagrir may be adversely affected if fewer vehicles are used as a result of an economic downturn in Israel, an increase in use of mass transportation, an increase in vehicle related taxes, an increase in the imputed value of vehicles provided as a part of employee compensation or other macroeconomic changes affecting the use of vehicles. Although to date we have not seen a decrease in the use of private vehicles as a result of such factors, Shagrir has witnessed fewer new installations of its stolen vehicle retrieval systems in Israel as of the fourth quarter of 2008 and through 2009 due to the economic environment. In addition, our stolen vehicle retrieval services significantly depend on Israeli insurance companies mandating subscription to a service such as ours. If Israeli insurance companies cease to require such subscriptions, our business could be significantly adversely affected. We also rely on the renewal and retention of several operating licenses issued by certain Israeli regulatory authorities. Should such authorities fail to renew any of these licenses, suspend existing licenses, or require additional licenses, we may be forced to suspend or cease certain services that we provide. Many of our employees in Israel are required to perform military reserve duty. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40, including some of our office holders and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. In the past there have been significant call ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess the impact these conditions may have on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our bu siness. We may be adversely affected by a change in the exchange rate of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates between the NIS, and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated continuously in recent years. Exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on our revenues and profitability and period-to-period comparisons of our results. In 2002 and 2005 the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar was 7.3% and 6.8% respectively, while in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008 the NIS appreciated in value in relation to the dollar by 7.6% 1.6%, 8.2%, 9% and 1.1%, respectively. In 2009 the rate of the revaluation of the NIS against the dollar was 0.7% while the fluctuation during 2009 was between 2.9% revaluation and 11.9% devaluation. As of December 31, 2009, our revenues in NIS accounted for approximately 71% of our total revenues in 2009. Loans and utilized credit facilities in the amount of approx imately $17.9 million, constituting approximately 73% out of our total loans and credit facilities, are also denominated in NIS. Approximately 75% of our expenses (primarily labor expenses of the operations of our Cellocator segment and Shagrir in Israel) are incurred in NIS. Additionally, certain assets, as well as a portion of our liabilities are denominated in NIS. On the other hand, as of December 31, 2009, our exports, including sales of the products of our Cellocator segment, are generally denominated in U.S. dollars and to a lesser extent in Euro, and Mexican pesos. Loans and credit facilities in the amount of approximately $6.6 million, constituting approximately 27% out of our total loans and credit facilities, are denominated in U.S. dollars. 23 Our results may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar (or if such devaluation is on lagging basis), if our revenues in NIS are higher than our expenses in NIS and/or the amount of our assets in NIS are higher than our liabilities in NIS. Alternatively, our results may be adversely affected by appreciation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such appreciation is on a lagging basis), if the amount of our expenses in NIS are higher than the amount of our revenues in NIS and/or the amount of our liabilities in NIS are higher than our assets in NIS. We may utilize partial hedging to manage currency risk. For example, in 2009 we entered into a foreign currency hedging transaction to partially manage the risk related to salary expenses in 2009. Therefore, to the extent our curre ncy risk is not hedged or sufficient hedged, we may experience exchange rate losses which could significantly and negatively affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses from such fluctuations in the future. For further discussion of the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar to the NIS , please see Item 5 - Impact of Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets, and Item 11 - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We may be adversely affected by a change of the Israeli and Argentine Consumer Price Index. Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index, or Israeli CPI, relates primarily to loans borrowed by us from banks and other lenders. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding loans in the amount of $5.5 million linked to Israeli CPI. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of Israeli CPI, which measures inflation in Israel, will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the US Dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our borrowings. By administrative order, certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut (General Federation of Labor in Israel) and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations, relating primarily to the length of the work day, minimum wages, pension contributions, insurance for work-related accidents, procedures for dismissing employees, determination of severance pay and other conditions of employment are applicable to our employees. In accordance with these provisions, the salaries of our employees are partially indexed to the Israeli CPI. In the event that inflation in Israel will increase, we will have to increase the salaries of our employees in Israel respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we did not increase the salaries of our employees in Israel due to an increase in inflation. In Argentina, we are fac ing a similar situation, and accordingly, in 2009, due to an increase in inflation, we increased the salaries of some of our employees. There can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by such increase in salaries in the future. 24 We may not be eligible to receive grants or programs provided to us from our participation in research and development, investments and other programs or we may be restricted from manufacturing products or transferring our intellectual property outside of Israel. We have received certain grants and programs from the Israeli Government. Some of these programs may restrict our right to manufacture products or transfer our intellectual property outside of Israel. If we do not meet certain conditions in the future, we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs or pay fines. Service and enforcement of legal process. Service of process upon directors and officers of our company and the Israeli experts named herein, all of who reside outside the United States, may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, since the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained against us in the United States may not be enforceable within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Yigal Arnon & Co., that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce United States final executory judgments for liquidated amou nts in civil matters obtained after due trial before a court of competent jurisdiction (according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel) which enforces similar Israeli judgments, provided that: (i) due service of process has been effected; (ii) such judgments or the enforcement thereof are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; (iii) such judgments were not obtained by fraud and do not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and (iv) an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. 