Risk Factors Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial conditions are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. We depend on our key personnel - Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain executive officers, senior officers and company managers. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. Debt financing – At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.66 billion of indebtedness (including $233.1 million of variable rate indebtedness, of which $152.7 million is subject to interest rate protection agreements). We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the following: · cash flow may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; · inability to refinance maturing indebtedness on encumbered properties; · the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness; · inability to comply with debt covenants could cause an acceleration of the maturity date; and · repaying debt before the scheduled maturity date could result in prepayment penalties. Uncertainty of our ability to refinance balloon payments - As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.66 billion of mortgage debt, exchangeable bonds and line of credit borrowings, most of which are subject to balloon payments (see Notes 8 and 9 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for more details). We do not expect to have sufficient cash flows from operations to make all of these balloon payments. These mortgages, bonds and lines of credit borrowings have the following scheduled principal and balloon payments: 2008--$125.2 million; 2009--$185.7 million; 2010--$154.8 million; 2011--$166.5 million; 2012--$32.2 million; Thereafter--$993.3 million. We may not be able to refinance such mortgage indebtedness, bonds, or lines of credit. The Properties subject to these mortgages could be foreclosed upon or otherwise transferred to the lender. This could cause us to lose income and asset value. We may be required to refinance the debt at higher interest rates or on terms that may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. The Company’s current financing activities have not been severely impacted by the tightening in the credit markets. Our strong balance sheet, the established relationships with our unsecured line of credit bank group and access to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac secured debt financing have insulated us from the turmoil being experienced by many other real estate companies. Recently, we have experienced some expansion in credit spreads as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s tier 4 financing are currently at approximately 200 basis points over the relevant U.S. treasury securities. Debt financing on Properties may result in insufficient cash flow - Where possible, we intend to continue to use leverage to increase the rate of return on our investments and to provide for additional investments that we could not otherwise make. There is a risk that the cash flow from the Properties will be insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the real estate investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. We may obtain additional debt financing in the future through mortgages on some or all of the Properties. These mortgages may be recourse, non-recourse, or cross-collateralized. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had 74 of its 123 consolidated apartment communities encumbered by debt. Of the 74 communities, 51 are secured by deeds of trust relating solely to those properties. With respect to the 8 remaining 23 communities, there are 5 cross-collateralized mortgages secured by 8 communities, 7 communities, 3 communities, 3 communities, and 2 communities, respectively. The holders of this indebtedness will have claims against these communities and, to the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to foreclose upon communities which are not the primary collateral for their loan. This may accelerate other indebtedness secured by communities. Foreclosure of communities would reduce our income and net asset value. Risk of rising interest rates - Current interest rates could potentially increase rapidly, which could result in higher interest expense on our variable rate indebtedness. Prolonged interest rate increases could negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions and develop properties at economic returns on investment and our ability to refinance existing borrowings at acceptable rates. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $220.9 million of long-term variable rate indebtedness bearing interest at floating rates tied to the rate of short-term tax-exempt revenue bonds (which mature at various dates from 2020 through 2034), $12.2 million of short-term variable rate indebtedness bearing interest at LIBOR plus 1.25% related to a predevelopment project due in 2009, and $169.8 million of variable rate indebtedness under our lines of credit. Of the $169.8 million of variable rate indebtedness under our lines of credit, $100.0 million is bearing interest at the Freddie Mac Reference Rate plus from 0.55% to 0.59%, $61.0 million is bearing interest at the underlying interest rate based on a tiered rate structure tied to the Company’s corporate ratings and is currently at LIBOR plus 0.80%, and $8.8 million is bearing interest at the underlying interest rate based on the bank’s Prime Rate less 2.0%. Approximately $152.7 million of the long-term indebtedness is subject to interest rate cap protection agreements, which may reduce the risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates. The remaining $68.2 million of long-term variable rate indebtedness was not subject to any interest rate cap protection agreements as of December 31, 2007. An increase in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. Risk of losses on interest rate hedging arrangements – Periodically, we have entered into agreements to reduce the risks associated with increases in interest rates, and may continue to do so. Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks. In order to minimize counterparty credit risk, our policy is to enter into hedging arrangements only with A-rated financial institutions. Bond compliance requirements may limit income from certain properties - At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $220.9 million of variable rate tax-exempt financing relating to the following apartment communities: Inglenook Court, Wandering Creek, Boulevard (Treetops), Huntington Breakers, Camarillo Oaks, Fountain Park, Anchor Village and Hidden Valley (Parker Ranch). This tax-exempt financing subjects these properties to certain deed restrictions and restrictive covenants. We expect to engage in tax-exempt financings in the future. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code and rules and regulations thereunder impose various restrictions, conditions and requirements excluding interest on qualified bond obligations from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Code also requires that at least 20% of apartment units be made available to residents with gross incomes that do not exceed a specified percentage, generally 50%, of the median income for the applicable family size as determined by the Housing and Urban Development Department of the federal government. In addition to federal requirements, certain state and local authorities may impose additional rental restrictions. These restrictions may limit income from the tax-exempt financed properties if we are required to lower rental rates to attract residents who satisfy the median income test. If the Company does not reserve the required number of apartment homes for residents satisfying these income requirements, the tax-exempt status of the bonds may be terminated, the obligations under the bond documents may be accelerated and we may be subject to additional contractual liability. Adverse effect to property income and value due to general real estate investment risks - Real property investments are subject to a variety of risks. The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income generated and expenses incurred. If the properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, cash flow and the ability to make distributions to stockholders will be adversely affected. Income from the Properties may be further adversely affected by, among other things, the following factors: · the general economic climate; · local economic conditions in which the Properties are located, such as oversupply of housing or a reduction in demand for rental housing; · the attractiveness of the properties to tenants; · competition from other available space; and · the Company’s ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance. 9 As leases on the Properties expire, tenants may enter into new leases on terms that are less favorable to us. Income and real estate values also may be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws (e.g., the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and tax laws), interest rate levels and the availability and terms of financing. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions may be quite limited. Economic environment and impact on operating results - The national economy and the economies of the western states in markets where we operate can impact our operating results. Some of these markets are concentrated in high-tech sectors, which have experienced economic downturns, and could again in the future. Our property type and diverse geographic locations provide some degree of risk mitigation. However, we are not immune to prolonged economic downturns. Although we believe we are well positioned to meet these challenges, it is possible a reduction in rental rates, occupancy levels, property valuations and increases in operating costs such as advertising, turnover and repair and maintenance expense could occur in the event of economic uncertainty. Due to the Company's concentration in supply restricted markets, the Company has not experienced any material adverse impact from increases in supply of unsold single family residences. Risk of Inflation/Deflation - Substantial inflationary or deflationary pressures could have a negative effect on rental rates and property operating expenses. Risks that acquisitions will fail to meet expectations - We intend to continue to acquire apartment communities. However, there are risks that acquisitions will fail to meet our expectations. Our estimates of future income, expenses and the costs of improvements or redevelopment that are necessary to allow us to market an acquired property as originally intended may prove to be inaccurate. We expect to finance future acquisitions, in whole or in part, under various forms of secured or unsecured financing or through the issuance of partnership units by the Operating Partnership or related partnerships or additional equity by the Company. The use of equity financing, rather than debt, for future developments or acquisitions could dilute the interest of the Company’s existing stockholders. If we finance new acquisitions under existing lines of credit, there is a risk that, unless we obtain substitute financing, the Company may not be able to secure further lines of credit for new development or such lines of credit may be not available on advantageous terms. Risks that development and redevelopment activities will be delayed, not completed, and/or not achieve expected results - We pursue apartment community development and redevelopment projects and these projects generally require various governmental and other approvals, which have no assurance of being received. Our development and redevelopment activities generally entail certain risks, including the following: · funds may be expended and management's time devoted to projects that may not be completed; · construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates possibly making the project economically unfeasible; · projects may be delayed due to, without limitation, adverse weather conditions, entitlement and government regulations, labor shortages, or unforeseen complications; · occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may be less than anticipated; and · expenses at projects may be higher than anticipated. These risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders. Further, the development of properties is also subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments. For further information regarding these risks, please see “Adverse Effect to Property Income and Value Due to General Real Estate Investment Risks.” The geographic concentration of the Company’s Properties and fluctuations in local markets may adversely impact our financial condition and operating results – The Company generated significant amounts of rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, from properties concentrated in Southern California (Los Angeles, Orange, Santa Barbara, San Diego, and Ventura counties), Northern California (the San Francisco Bay Area), and the Seattle metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2007, 81% of the Company’s property revenues were generated from Properties located in California. This geographic concentration could present risks if local property market performance falls below expectations. The economic condition of these markets could affect occupancy, market rental rates, and expenses, as well as impact the income generated from the Properties and their underlying asset values. 10 The financial results of major local employers also may impact the cash flow and value of certain of the Properties. This could have a negative impact on our financial condition and operating results, which could affect our ability to pay expected dividends to our stockholders. Competition in the apartment community market may adversely affect operations and the rental demand for our Properties - There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with our apartment communities in attracting residents. These include other apartment communities and single-family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which the Properties are located. The Properties also compete for residents with new and existing homes and condominiums that are for sale. If the demand for our Properties is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing properties on a more cost-effective basis, rental rates may drop, which may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. Some of the competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. This competition may result in an increase in costs and prices of apartment communities that we acquire and/or develop. Dividend requirements as a result of preferred stock may lead to a possible inability to sustain dividends - We have Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (“Series F Preferred Stock”) with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $25 million outstanding and Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series G Preferred Stock”) with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $149.5 million outstanding. In addition, we are required under limited conditions to issue Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”) with an aggregate liquidation preference of $80 million and Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (“Series D Preferred Stock”) with an aggregate liquidation preference of $50 million in each case in exchange for outstanding preferred interests in the Operating Partnership. The terms of the Series B, D, F and G Preferred Stock provide for certain cumulative preferential cash distributions per each share of preferred stock. These terms also provide that while such preferred stock is outstanding, we cannot authorize, declare, or pay any distributions on our common stock, unless all distributions accumulated on all shares of such preferred stock have been paid in full. Our failure to pay distributions on such preferred stock would impair our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our credit agreement limits our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock if we fail to satisfy a fixed charge coverage ratio. If the Company wishes to issue any common stock in the future (including upon the exercise of stock options), the funds required to continue to pay cash dividends at current levels will be increased. The Company’s ability to pay dividends will depend largely upon the performance of our current properties and other properties that may be acquired or developed in the future. If the Company cannot pay dividends on its common stock, the Company’s status as a real estate investment trust may be jeopardized. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the Maryland General Corporation Law. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, the Company may not make a distribution on stock if, after giving effect to such distribution, either: · we would not be able to pay our indebtedness as it becomes due in the usual course of business; or · our total assets would be less than our total liabilities, including the liquidation preference on our Series B, Series D, Series F, and Series G preferred stock. Resale of shares pursuant to our effective registration statement or that are issued upon conversion of our convertible preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares – The Company has the following effective registration statements, which allows for the resale into the public stock of common stock held by stockholders, as specified in the registration statements: · A registration statement, declared effective in 2003, which covers the resale of certain shares, including (i) up to 2,270,490 shares of common stock that are issuable upon exchange of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and (ii) up to 1,473,125 shares that are issuable upon exchange of limited partnership interests in certain other real estate partnerships; · Registration statements, declared effective in 2006, that cover (i) the resale of up to 142,076 shares issuable in connection with our Waterford and Vista Belvedere acquisitions and (ii) the resale of shares issuable in connection with the exchange rights of our 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes, as to which there is a principal amount of $225 million outstanding. 11 During the third quarter of 2006, we issued, pursuant to a registration statement, 5,980,000 shares of 4.875% Series G Cumulative Preferred Stock for estimated gross proceeds of $149.5 million; such shares are convertible, subject to certain conditions, into common stock, which could be resold into the public market. The resale of the shares of common stock pursuant to these various registration statements or that are issued upon conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. The exchange and repurchase rights of Exchangeable Senior Notes and Series G Preferred Stock may be detrimental to holders of common stock - The Operating Partnership has $225 million principal amount of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes (the “Notes”) outstanding which mature on November 1, 2025. The Notes are exchangeable into the Company's common stock on or after November 1, 2020 or prior to November 1, 2020 under certain circumstances. The Notes are redeemable at the Company's option for cash at any time on or after November 4, 2010 and are subject to repurchase for cash at the option of the holder on November 1st in the years 2010, 2015 and 2020, or upon the occurrence of certain events. The Notes are senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company. In 2006, the Company sold 5,980,000 shares of 4.875% Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series G Preferred Stock”) for gross proceeds of $149.5 million. Holders may convert Series G Preferred Stock into shares of the Company’s common stock subject to certain conditions. The conversion rate will initially be .1830 shares of common stock per $25 share liquidation preference, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of $136.62 per share of common stock (the conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events). On or after July 31, 2011, the Company may, under certain circumstances cause some or all of the Series G Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of common stock at the then prevailing conversion rate. Further, if a fundamental change occurs, as defined in the articles supplementary for the Series G Preferred Stock, then the holders may require the Company to repurchase all or part of their Series G Preferred Stock subject to certain conditions. The exchange of the Notes and/or Series G Preferred Stock for common stock would dilute stockholder ownership in the Company, and such exchange could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If the Notes and Series G Preferred Stock are not exchanged, the repurchase price of the Notes and Series G Preferred Stock may discourage or impede transactions that might otherwise be in the interest of the holders of common stock. Further, these repurchase rights may be triggered in situations where the Company needs to conserve its cash reserves, in which event such repurchase might adversely affect the Company and its common stockholders. Our future issuances of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt securities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock - In order to finance our property acquisition and development activities, we have issued and sold common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt securities. For example, during 2007, the Company sold 1,500,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering for proceeds of $191.8 million, net of underwriter fees and expenses. During 2007 and 2006, pursuant to a Controlled Equity Offering program that the Company entered into with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., the Company issued and sold approximately 170,500 and 427,700 shares of common stock for $21.9 million and $48.3 million, net of fees and commissions, respectively. The Company may in the future sell further shares of common stock pursuant to a Controlled Equity Offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald &Co. In 2006, the Company issued 5,980,000 shares of 4.875% Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock for gross proceeds of approximately $149.5 million. In 2005, the Operating Partnership sold $225 million principal amount of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes, which are exchangeable into the Company’s common stock under certain conditions. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the SEC, allowing the Company to sell an undetermined number of equity and debt securities as defined in the prospectus. Future sales of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt securities may dilute stockholder ownership in the Company and could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Our Chairman is involved in other real estate activities and investments, which may lead to conflicts of interest - Our Chairman, George M. Marcus is not an employee of the Company, and is involved in other real estate activities and investments, which may lead to conflicts of interest. Mr. Marcus owns interests in various other real estate-related businesses and investments. He is the Chairman of The Marcus & Millichap Company, or (“TMMC”), which is a holding company for certain real estate brokerage and services companies. TMMC has an interest in Pacific 12 Property Company, a company that invests in apartment communities. Mr. Marcus has agreed not to divulge any information that may be received by him in his capacity as Chairman of the Company to any of his affiliated companies and that he will abstain his vote on any and all resolutions by the Company Board of Directors regarding any proposed acquisition and/or development of an apartment community where it appears that there may be a conflict of interest with any of his affiliated companies. Notwithstanding this agreement, Mr. Marcus and his affiliated entities may potentially compete with us in acquiring and/or developing apartment communities, which competition may be detrimental to us. In addition, due to such potential competition for real estate investments, Mr. Marcus and his affiliated entities may have a conflict of interest with us, which may be detrimental to the interests of the Company’s stockholders. The influence of executive officers, directors and significant stockholders may be detrimental to holders of common stock - As of December 31, 2007, George M. Marcus, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, wholly or partially owned 1,768,773 shares of common stock (including shares issuable upon exchange of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and certain other partnerships and assuming exercise of all vested options). This represents approximately 7.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Marcus currently does not have majority control over us. However, he currently has, and likely will continue to have, significant influence with respect to the election of directors and approval or disapproval of significant corporate actions. Consequently, his influence could result in decisions that do not reflect the interests of all our stockholders. Under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the consent of the holders of limited partnership interests is generally required for any amendment of the agreement and for certain extraordinary actions. Through their ownership of limited partnership interests and their positions with us, our directors and executive officers, including Mr. Marcus, have substantial influence on us. Consequently, their influence could result in decisions that do not reflect the interests of all stockholders. The voting rights of preferred stock may allow holders of preferred stock to impede actions that otherwise benefit holders of common stock - In general, the holders of our outstanding shares of preferred stock do not have any voting rights. However, if full distributions are not made on any outstanding preferred stock for six quarterly distributions periods, the holders of preferred stock who have not received distributions, voting together as a single class, will have the right to elect two additional directors to serve on our Board of Directors. These voting rights continue until all distributions in arrears and distributions for the current quarterly period on the preferred stock have been paid in full. At that time, the holders of the preferred stock are divested of these voting rights, and the term and office of the directors so elected immediately terminates. While any shares of our preferred stock are outstanding, the Company may not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of each series of preferred stock, each voting separately as a single class: · authorize or create any class or series of stock that ranks senior to such preferred stock with respect to the payment of dividends, rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business; · amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Company’s Charter or Bylaws, including by merger or consolidation, that would materially and adversely affect the rights of such series of preferred stock; or · in the case of the preferred stock into which our preferred units are exchangeable, merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer substantially all of its assets to another entity, except if such preferred stock remains outstanding with the surviving entity and has the same terms and in certain other circumstances. These voting rights of the preferred stock may allow holders of preferred stock to impede or veto actions that would otherwise benefit the holders of our common stock. The redemption rights of the Series B preferred units, Series D preferred units, Series F preferred stock and Series G preferred stock may be detrimental to holders of the Company’s common stock - Upon the occurrence of one of the following events, the terms of the Operating Partnership’s Series B and D Preferred Units require it to redeem all of such units and the terms of the Company’s Series F Preferred Stock and the Series G Preferred Stock provide the holders of the majority of the outstanding Series F Preferred Stock and Series G Preferred Stock the right to require the Company to redeem all of such stock: · the Company completes a “going private” transaction and its common stock is no longer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; · the Company completes a consolidation or merger or sale of substantially all of its assets and the surviving entity’s debt securities do not possess an investment grade rating; · the Company fails to qualify as a REIT; or · in the case of Series G preferred stock, The Company common stock is not traded on a major exchange. 13 The aggregate redemption price of the Series B Preferred Units would be $80 million, the aggregate redemption price of the Series D Preferred Units would be $50 million, the aggregate redemption price of the Series F Preferred Stock would be $25 million and the aggregate redemption price of the Series G Preferred Stock would be $149.5 million, plus, in each case, any accumulated distributions. These redemption rights may discourage or impede transactions that might otherwise be in the interest of holders of common stock. Further, these redemption rights might trigger situations where the Company needs to conserve its cash reserves, in which event such redemption might adversely affect the Company and its common holders. Maryland business combination law may not allow certain transactions between the Company and its affiliates to proceed without compliance with such law - Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as any person (and certain affiliates of such person) who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock. The law also requires a supermajority stockholder vote for such transactions. This means that the transaction must be approved by at least: · 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares; and · Two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom the business combination is to be effected. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These voting provisions do not apply if the stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law. As permitted by the statute, the Board of Directors of the Company irrevocably has elected to exempt any business combination by us, George M. Marcus, William A. Millichap, who are the chairman and a director of the Company, respectively, and TMMC or any entity owned or controlled by Messrs. Marcus and Millichap and TMMC. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and supermajority vote requirement described above will not apply to any business combination between us and Mr. Marcus, Mr. Millichap, or TMMC. As a result, we may in the future enter into business combinations with Messrs. Marcus and Millichap and TMMC, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law. Anti-takeover provisions contained in the Operating Partnership agreement, charter, bylaws, and certain provisions of Maryland law could delay, defer or prevent a change in control - While the Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, and generally has full and exclusive responsibility and discretion in the management and control of the Operating Partnership, certain provisions of the Operating Partnership agreement place limitations on the Company’s ability to act with respect to the Operating Partnership. Such limitations could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders or that could otherwise adversely affect the interest of the Company’s stockholders. The partnership agreement provides that if the limited partners own at least 5% of the outstanding units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, the Company cannot, without first obtaining the consent of a majority-in-interest of the limited partners in the Operating Partnership, transfer all or any portion of our general partner interest in the Operating Partnership to another entity. Such limitations on the Company’s ability to act may result in our being precluded from taking action that the Board of Directors believes is in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, the limited partners held or controlled approximately 9.1% of the outstanding units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, allowing such actions to be blocked by the limited partners. The Company’s Charter authorizes the issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock and the setting of the preferences, rights and other terms of such preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. We may establish one or more series of preferred stock that could delay defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control. Such a transaction might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the holders of common stock. Also, such a class of preferred stock could have dividend, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the interest of holders of common stock. The Company’s Charter, as well as the Company’s stockholder rights plan, contains other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s stockholder rights plan is designed, among other things, to prevent a person or group from gaining control of the Company without offering a fair price to all of the Company’s stockholders. The Bylaws may be amended by the Board of Directors to include provisions that would have a similar effect, although the Company presently has no such intention. The Charter contains ownership provisions limiting the transferability and 14 ownership of shares of capital stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. For example, subject to receiving an exemption from the Board of Directors, potential acquirers may not purchase more than 6% in value of the stock (other than qualified pension trusts which can acquire 9.9%). This may discourage tender offers that may be attractive to the holders of common stock and limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of common stock. The Maryland General Corporations Law restricts the voting rights of shares deemed to be “control shares.” Under the Maryland General Corporations Law, “control shares” are those which, when aggregated with any other shares held by the acquirer, entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power within specified ranges. Although the Bylaws exempt the Company from the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law, the Board of Directors may amend or eliminate the provisions of the Bylaws at any time in the future. Moreover, any such amendment or elimination of such provision of the Bylaws may result in the application of the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law not only to control shares which may be acquired in the future, but also to control shares previously acquired. If the provisions of the Bylaws are amended or eliminated, the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s joint ventures and joint ownership of Properties and partial interests in corporations and limited partnerships could limit the Company’s ability to control such Properties and partial interests - Instead of purchasing apartment communities directly, we have invested and may continue to invest in joint ventures. Joint venture partners often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, it is possible that a joint venture partner in an investment might become bankrupt, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or our policies or objectives. Consequently, a joint venture partners’ actions might subject property owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Although we seek to maintain sufficient influence over any joint venture to achieve its objectives, we may be unable to take action without our joint venture partners’ approval, or joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for such partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. From time to time, we, through the Operating Partnership, invest in corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that have been formed for the purpose of acquiring, developing or managing real property. In certain circumstances, the Operating Partnership’s interest in a particular entity may be less than a majority of the outstanding voting interests of that entity. Therefore, the Operating Partnership’s ability to control the daily operations of such an entity may be limited. Furthermore, the Operating Partnership may not have the power to remove a majority of the board of directors (in the case of a corporation) or the general partner or partners (in the case of a limited partnership) of such an entity in the event that its operations conflict with the Operating Partnership’s objectives. The Operating Partnership may not be able to dispose of its interests in such an entity. In the event that such an entity becomes insolvent, the Operating Partnership may lose up to its entire investment in and any advances to the entity. We have, and in the future may, enter into transactions that could require us to pay the tax liabilities of partners, which contribute assets into joint ventures or the Operating Partnership, in the event that certain taxable events, which are within our control, occur. Although we plan to hold the contributed assets or defer recognition of gain on their sale pursuant to the like-kind exchange rules under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so and if such tax liabilities were incurred they can expect to have a material impact on our financial position. Dedicated investment activities and other factors specifically related to Fund II - Fund II involves risks to us such as the following: · our partners in Fund II might remove the Company as the general partner of Fund II; · our partners in Fund II might become bankrupt (in which event we might become generally liable for the liabilities of Fund II); · our partners in Fund II might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; · our partners in Fund II might fail to fund capital commitments as contractually required; or · our partners in Fund II might fail to approve decisions regarding Fund II that are in the Company’s best interest. We will, however, generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over Fund II to permit it to achieve its business objectives. 15 Investments in mortgages and other real estate securities – The Company may invest in securities related to real estate, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The Company may purchase securities issued by entities which own real estate and invest in mortgages or unsecured debt obligations. These mortgages may be first, second or third mortgages that may or may not be insured or otherwise guaranteed. In general, investments in mortgages include the following risks: · that the value of mortgaged property may be less than the amounts owed, causing realized or unrealized losses; · the borrower may not pay indebtedness under the mortgage when due, requiring us to foreclose, and the amount recovered in connection with the foreclosure may be less than the amount owed; · that interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than our cost of funds; and · in the case of junior mortgages, that foreclosure of a senior mortgage would eliminate the junior mortgage. If any of the above were to occur, cash flows from operations and our ability to make expected dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected. Possible environmental liabilities - Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, in, to or migrating from such property. Such laws often impose liability without regard as to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons exposed to such substances, either through soil vapor or ingestion of the substances may claim personal injury damages. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility to which such substances or wastes were sent, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials (“ACMs”) into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with ACMs. In connection with the ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of real properties, the Company could be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines and costs related to injuries of persons and property. Investments in real property create a potential for environmental liabilities on the part of the owner of such real property. We carry certain limited insurance coverage for this type of environmental risk. We have conducted environmental studies which revealed the presence of groundwater contamination at certain Properties. Such contamination at certain of these properties was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent industrial manufacturing operations. The former industrial users of the Properties were identified as the source of contamination. The environmental studies noted that certain Properties are located adjacent to any possible down gradient from sites with known groundwater contamination, the lateral limits of which may extend onto such properties. The environmental studies also noted that at certain of these properties, contamination existed because of the presence of underground fuel storage tanks, which have been removed. In general, in connection with the ownership, operation, financing, management and development of real properties, we may be potentially liable for removal or clean-up costs, as well as certain other costs and environmental liabilities. We may also be subject to governmental fines and costs related to injuries to persons and property. Recently there has been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of apartment communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. The Company has been sued for mold related matters and has settled some, but not all, such matters, which matters remain unresolved and pending. Insurance carriers have reacted to mold related liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements at prohibitively high rates. The Company has, however, purchased pollution liability insurance, which includes limited coverage for mold, although the insurance may not cover all pending or future mold claims. The Company has adopted programs designed to manage the existence of mold in its properties as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold to minimize any impact mold might have on residents or the property. The Company cannot assure you that it will not be sued in the future for mold related matters and cannot assure you that the liabilities resulting from such current or future mold related matters will not be substantial. The costs of carrying insurance to address potential mold related claims may also be substantial. 16 California has enacted legislation commonly referred to as “Proposition 65” requiring that “clear and reasonable” warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity, including tobacco smoke. Although we have sought to comply with Proposition 65 requirements, we cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to Proposition 65. Methane gas is a naturally-occurring gas that is commonly found below the surface in several areas, particularly in the Southern California coastal areas. Methane is a non-toxic gas, but can be ignitable in confined spaces. Although naturally-occurring, methane gas is not regulated at the state or federal level, some local governments, such as the County of Los Angeles, have imposed requirements that new buildings install detection systems in areas where methane gas is known to be located. Methane gas is also associated with certain industrial activities, such as former municipal waste landfills. Radon is also a naturally-occurring gas that is found below the surface. The Company cannot assure you that it will not be adversely affected by costs related to its compliance with methane gas related requirements or litigation costs related to methane or radon gas. The Company has almost no indemnification agreements from third parties for potential environmental clean-up costs at its Properties. The Company has no way of determining at this time the magnitude of any potential liability to which it may be subject arising out of unknown environmental conditions or violations with respect to the properties formerly owned by the Company. No assurance can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to any of the Properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of a Property did not create any material environmental condition not known to the Company, or that a material environmental condition does not exist as to any one or more of the Properties. The Company has limited insurance coverage for the types of environmental liabilities described above. General uninsured losses - The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for each of the Properties. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as, for example, losses for terrorism or earthquake, for which the Company does not have insurance coverage. Substantially all of the Properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. In January 2007, the Company canceled its then existing earthquake policy and established a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC (“PWI”). Through PWI, the Company is self-insured as it relates to earthquake related losses. Additionally, as of January 2008, PWI provides property and casualty insurance coverage for the first $5.0 million of the Company’s property level insurance claims per incident. Although the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its Properties, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be material. In the event of a substantial loss, insurance coverage may not be able to cover the full current market value of replacement cost of the Company’s lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also affect the Company’s ability to replace or renovate an apartment community after it has been damaged or destroyed. Changes in real estate tax and other laws - Generally we do not directly pass through costs resulting from changes in real estate tax laws to residential property tenants. We also do not generally pass through increases in income, service or other taxes, to tenants under leases. These costs may adversely affect funds from operations and the ability to make distributions to stockholders. Similarly, compliance with changes in (i) laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions or (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing may result in significant unanticipated decrease in revenue or increase in expenditures, which would adversely affect funds from operations and the ability to make distributions to stockholders. Changes in financing policy; no limitation on debt – We have adopted a policy of maintaining a debt-to-total-market-capitalization ratio of less than 50%. The calculation of debt-to-total-market-capitalization is as follows: total indebtedness divided by the sum of total indebtedness plus total equity market capitalization. As used in this calculation, total equity market capitalization is equal to the aggregate market value of the outstanding shares of common stock (based on the greater of current market price or the gross proceeds per share from public offerings of the outstanding shares plus any undistributed net cash flow), assuming the conversion of all limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership into shares of common stock and the gross proceeds of the preferred units and preferred stock. Based on this calculation (including the current market price and excluding undistributed net cash flow), our debt-to-total-market-capitalization ratio was approximately 35.7% as of December 31, 2007. 17 Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of The Company could change current policies and the policies of the Operating Partnership regarding indebtedness. If we changed these policies, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and the obligations of the Operating Partnership, and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Such increased debt could exceed the underlying value of the Properties. We are subject to certain tax risks - The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company’s qualification as a REIT requires it to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control. Although the Company intends that its current organization and method of operation enable it to qualify as a REIT, the Company cannot assure you that it so qualifies or that it will be able to remain so qualified in the future. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions (any of which could have retroactive effect) could adversely the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT or adversely affect its stockholders. If it fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at corporate rates, and would not be allowed to deduct dividends paid to its shareholders in computing its taxable income. The Company may also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it failed to qualify. The additional tax liability would reduce its net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders, and it would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders. Even if the Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and property. The Company has established several taxable REIT subsidiaries. Despite the Company’s qualification as a REIT, its taxable REIT subsidiaries must pay U.S. federal income tax on their taxable income. While the Company will attempt to ensure that its dealing with its taxable REIT subsidiaries does not adversely affect its REIT qualification, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, the Company may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or its taxable REIT subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent its dealings with its taxable REIT subsidiaries’ are not deemed to be arm’s length in nature. No assurances can be given that The Company’s dealings with its taxable REIT subsidiaries’ will be arm’s length in nature. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our Properties. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of Properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. If the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then the Company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to the Company from the prohibited transaction and the Company’s ability to retain future gains on real property sales may be jeopardized. Income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect the Company’s ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, no assurances can be given that the Company will be able to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 