ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s continued success depends on management’s ability to identify, prioritize, and appropriately manage a wide range of enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and additional information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those made by the Company in this document or elsewhere. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones facing the Company and are not organized in order of priority. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management or that management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, it could affect the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations, cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline, or cause actual results to differ materially from those expected. The recently announced strategic restructuring plan is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a strategic restructuring plan. The restructuring plan will include, among other things, the sale of two business units serving skilled nursing facilities and specialty dental practices, the integration of warehouse operations into one common distribution infrastructure, as well as a redesign of the shared services function. The restructuring is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and may otherwise cause disruption to the Company’s business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: • The Company may not be able to divest the business units on favorable terms, or at all; • The Company may not be able to retain key personnel (including sales representatives), customers, and suppliers during or after the restructuring; • The Company may not execute the restructuring plan in a timely or efficient manner; • The Company may experience a disruption to the Company’s IT systems; • The Company may not be able to find suitable acquisitions in the areas it has chosen to focus; and • The Company may incur substantial restructuring or impairment charges. The Company may not be able to continue to successfully compete with other medical supply companies and direct manufacturers. Consolidation within the healthcare industry has resulted in increased competition by direct manufacturers, large national distributors, and drug wholesalers, and may result in lower customer pricing and/or higher operating costs. Additionally, changes in ownership of physician practices may erode the Company’s customer base. Continued consolidation in the healthcare industry could result in the following: • potential new entrants to the markets the Company serves; • provider networks created through consolidation among physician provider groups, long-term care facilities, and other alternate site providers may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom the Company has no current relationship; • national hospital distributors, drug wholesale distributors, and healthcare manufacturers may focus their efforts more directly on the Company’s markets; • competitors obtaining exclusive rights to market products to the Company’s customers; and • hospitals forming alliances with long-term care facilities or physician practices to create health systems which may look to hospital distributors and manufacturers to supply their affiliates. 12 Table of Contents The medical supply distribution market is highly competitive. The Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected if competitors offer products similar to those distributed by the Company at significantly lower prices. Principal competitors of the Company include full-line and full-service, multi-market medical distributors, internet distributors, and direct selling manufacturers, many of which have a national presence and significantly greater resources than the Company. The Company also faces significant competition from regional and local distributors, telemarketing firms, internet companies, and mail order firms. The Company’s competition may have the following strengths: • sales representatives that compete directly with the Company; • capability to market products directly to the Company’s customers; • exclusive access to unique products or services; • substantially greater financial resources than the Company; and • lower product and operating costs. There can be no assurance the Company will maintain operating margins and customer relationships and avoid increased competition and significant pricing pressure in the future if medical supply distributor consolidations, acquisitions of the Company’s customers by hospitals, and other customer consolidations occur. If the Company is unable to compete successfully with other medical supply distributors and direct manufacturers, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions, including the current global economy may materially adversely impact the Company’s operating results. Current and future economic conditions and other factors including consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates, consumer debt levels, the threat or outbreak of terrorism, fuel and energy costs, the availability of consumer credit, and the impact of state and federal budget deficits on Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement can reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits, having a negative impact on the purchasing power of the Company’s customers. The current global economy has and may continue to materially adversely affect consumer spending habits and the Company’s operating results. Trends in healthcare spending, as well as the recently enacted health care reform legislation, may impact the Company’s results of operations. A significant portion of medical costs in the United States are funded by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and corporate health insurance plans. In recent years, government-imposed limits on reimbursement to hospitals, physicians, nursing homes, home health providers, and other healthcare providers have significantly impacted spending in certain markets within the medical products industry. Future changes in Medicare and state administered Medicaid programs may limit payments to providers and customers served by the Company. Significant reductions in reimbursement levels and adjustments, in combination with rising costs, may negatively impact customers’ financial health and liquidity and may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, the Company’s Medicare Part B billing services are subject to a competitive bidding process. The inability of the Company to successfully compete in this environment could impact the Company’s net sales and results of operations. Health care reform is a key priority of the current Administration. The Health Care Reform Bill included increased availability of insurance, provisions for healthcare information technology, increased efficiencies in Medicare and Medicaid, and provisions for additional taxes on medical devices. In addition, the Health Care Reform Bill provides for changes in how healthcare may be delivered to patients in the future, such as accountable care organizations and the use of healthcare information technology, which may impact the Company’s business. It is unclear at this time what impact such laws and regulations will have on the purchasing patterns of the Company’s customers, and as a result, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Numerous factors, many of which cannot be controlled by the Company, may cause the Company’s net sales and results of operations to fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s net sales and operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, some of which are out of the Company’s control, including: • general economic conditions; • demand for the products and services offered by the Company; • introduction of new products and services offered by the Company and its competitors; • seasonal and pandemic vaccine sales; • retention of sales representatives and other key employees; • acquisitions, dispositions, or other investments by the Company; • changes in manufacturers’ pricing policies, contract terms, and distribution strategies; • rapid or unexpected increases in product or operating costs; • changes in the Company’s business strategies, or those of its competitors; • product supply shortages; • product recalls by manufacturers; • changes in product mix; • fuel costs and third party shipping rates; • costs associated with the Company’s self-funded medical insurance program; • inclement weather; • disruptions resulting from implementing strategic business plans; • disruptions resulting from implementing ERP systems; and • changes by the government, including health care reform, changes in reimbursement rates to providers, regulatory requirements, and taxes related to the distribution of medical and pharmaceutical products. Accordingly, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of the results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance because these factors may cause the Company’s results of operations to differ from analysts’ and investors’ expectations in certain future periods. This could materially and adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may face increasing competitive pricing pressures on sales to its customers. The Company’s business strategy may not mitigate the effect of pricing pressures, which could adversely impact the Company’s net sales, gross margins, and results of operations. As a result of the current economic environment, the Company has experienced increased pressure on the price of its products and services, which may continue into future periods. Additionally, sales to large accounts and provider groups, especially in the extended care market, represent a significant portion of the Company’s revenue base. Competitive pricing pressures may increase due to: • change in ownership; • additional negotiating leverage of large customers; • supplier agreements containing volume discounts; • service specifications; • financial health of customers; • activity of competitors; and • activity of GPOs. 14 Table of Contents The viability of the Company’s customers may be threatened by various factors. The Company has been negatively impacted in the past, and could be negatively impacted in the future, when customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets, changes in reimbursement, or a loss of patient revenue due to changes in the general economy. Customers have, and may continue to modify, delay, or cancel plans to purchase the Company’s products or services. Additionally, if customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to the Company. Any inability of customers to pay for products and services may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s customers are also impacted by increasing costs of malpractice claims and liability insurance. As a result, customer financial viability may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition, net sales, results of operations, and cash flows from operations. The Company’s future operating results are affected by its relationships with its customers, sales representatives, and senior management team. The Company’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers is dependent upon hiring and retaining sales representatives. Customer relationships are at risk if a sales representative ceases employment with the Company, particularly where the representative seeks employment with a competitor. The Company uses employment agreements containing restrictive covenants, which protect the Company’s legitimate business interests. However, these agreements have not been obtained for all sales representatives. In addition, the terms of these agreements, in certain jurisdictions, may not be fully enforceable. The inability to adequately hire or retain sales representatives could limit the Company’s ability to expand its business and increase sales. The Company’s success in executing its strategic objectives depends largely on the efforts and abilities of senior management, particularly the executive management team, as well as operations and sales leaders at each distribution center, as local leaders have significant decision-making authority. Although the Company maintains key man life insurance for certain officers, the loss of services of one or more of its members of senior management, the inability of the current management team to successfully execute the Company’s strategies, or the inability of the Company to attract and retain key personnel through appropriately aligned compensation and benefit plans may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company relies extensively on its relationships, significant distribution agreements, and other purchasing arrangements with suppliers. The Company has distribution agreements and other purchasing arrangements with a substantial majority of its suppliers. The Company relies on these suppliers to manufacture and/or supply products for and to the Company for resale to the Company’s customers. If any distribution agreement or other purchasing arrangement between the Company and a supplier expires or is terminated, if the Company fails to meet the minimum requirements under the agreement, or if the Company and any supplier otherwise cease conducting business with each other, then the Company’s net sales and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Since the Company does not manufacture many of the products it sells, it is dependent on vendors and manufacturers for the supply of products. The Company relies on suppliers to provide, among other things: • field sales representatives’ technical and selling support; • acceptable purchasing, pricing, and delivery terms; • sales performance and other financial incentives; • rebates for inventory purchases or sales volume; • support of sales and marketing programs; • promotional materials; • product availability; and • product indemnification on certain products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in maintaining good relations with its suppliers. The Company’s global sourcing strategy may threaten relations with certain suppliers and risk the loss of key branded products. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the Company will meet forecasted inventory purchases, sales volume, or other criteria required to obtain the benefits outlined in supplier agreements. 15 Table of Contents Cost increases for the Company’s products may impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s suppliers, both domestic and foreign, may increase costs for products distributed by the Company. While the Company takes steps to mitigate the effect of these cost increases, there can be no assurance that these cost increases will not materially adversely impact the Company’s net sales, gross margins, financial conditions, and results of operations. Expansion of GPO or hospital purchasing power and the multi-tiered costing structure may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage. The medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain competitors can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than the Company. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large health systems and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. This may threaten the Company’s ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Although the Company seeks to obtain similar terms from manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices demanded by GPO contracts or other contracts, management cannot assure such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. The operating costs of the Company’s delivery fleet could increase due to fuel price fluctuations and/or service interruptions by third parties. The Company delivers its products to customers through either its Company-leased delivery fleet or third party transportation providers. Significant fluctuations in the cost of fuel have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the Company’s cost to deliver product to customers. In addition, the Company’s operations may be impacted by events and conditions outside of its control, including strikes or other service interruptions by third party transportation providers which may increase the Company’s operating expenses and adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products on a timely basis. The Company’s strategy for growth may not result in additional net sales or operating income and may have an adverse effect on working capital, operating cash flow, and results of operations. The Company seeks to increase revenues and operating income by: • developing innovative marketing and distribution programs; • expanding the sales force and increasing sales force productivity; • completing strategic acquisitions; • expanding e-commerce initiatives and development; • maintaining and expanding vendor incentive programs; • expanding product offerings; • expanding sales support services; • increasing healthcare information technology offerings; and • leveraging its infrastructure and information systems to improve sourcing, supply chain and distribution efficiency. These business strategies for growth may result in increased costs and expenses. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business strategy for growth will result in additional net sales or operating income. In addition, the implementation of the Company’s business strategy for growth may have an adverse effect on working capital, operating cash flow, and results of operations. Execution of Company’s acquisition strategy could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents An element of the Company’s strategy is to identify, pursue, and consummate acquisitions that either expand or complement the Company’s business. Future acquisitions or investments may be financed by the issuance of equity securities that would increase the number of outstanding common shares and may decrease earnings per share, and through incurring additional debt. Additionally, changes in generally accepted accounting principles and general economic and market conditions may affect the profitability of acquisitions. The Company has made numerous acquisitions over the past two fiscal years. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks. The Company may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies and realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits in a timely manner. Integration of an acquired company may be difficult when the acquired business is in a market in which the Company has limited expertise. If the operations of acquired companies are not successfully integrated, the Company may: • incur substantial unanticipated costs and delays; • experience operational, technical, or financial controls problems; and • damage relationships with key customers and employees. As a result of these operational, financing, and environmental factors, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and market price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected. The Company’s ability to execute its global sourcing strategy, which includes sourcing products from foreign markets subject to political, economic and legal uncertainties, may affect the Company’s overall profitability. The Company continues to expand its globally sourced product offerings, which are marketed under various brand names (collectively known as “store brand” or “store brands”). The Company’s global sourcing strategy revolves around sustaining sourcing channels to drive enhanced customer satisfaction and profitability. To attain its strategic objectives, the Company has focused on: • expanding the store brand product offering; • strengthening the global sourcing infrastructure; • improving product sourcing processes and sourcing partner coordination; • ensuring the quality of store brand products; • supporting increases in volume of globally sourced products; • effectively marketing store brand products; and • providing appropriate incentives to its sales force in the form of commission and promotions. The Company’s global sourcing strategy involves purchasing certain products directly from foreign manufacturers. The Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in the political, social, or economic environment of certain foreign countries. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, the imposition of surcharges or any material increase in tax rates, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to conduct business and its results of operations. Additional risks related to the Company’s global sourcing strategy include: • political unrest in certain regions; • intermittent supply interruptions with global manufacturers; • unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • shipping disruptions due to transportation delays; • fluctuations in the cost of commodities; • fluctuations in labor costs; • potential quality issues; • shortages in facility capacity; • availability of raw materials; • increasing regulation of imports; • natural disasters in certain regions; 17 Table of Contents • regional tensions that adversely affect the development of ongoing agreements; • intellectual property violation claims; and • violations of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The Company’s failure or inability to execute any of its strategic global sourcing initiatives could adversely impact its future profitability. The Company may not be able to effectively respond to changes in its systems and product-related technology. The use of technology and e-commerce by the Company and its customers is expanding. E-commerce is an efficient system for customer ordering and inventory management functions and the use of technology applications is becoming more prevalent in the Company’s customers’ businesses. The Company provides multiple e-commerce and other technology options in order to meet the demands of its customers. Advancements in technology and e-commerce will require the Company to enhance existing services and introduce new services to meet customer demands. If the Company does not address the changing demands of customers on a timely basis, the Company could experience adverse results. The Company’s business is dependent on data processing systems critical to the business operations. The Company is reliant on its information systems for centralized customer support, operating, and administrative processes. Management relies on the capability, accuracy, timeliness, and stability of its data processing systems to: • receive and ship customer orders, including those received electronically; • manage customer billings and collections; • provide accurate point-of-sale product cost information; • track and report third-party ancillary billing services; • provide product reporting, such as product purchases and sales by vendor and vendor incentives earned; • manage inventory procurement and processes; • track and report regulatory compliance related to certain pharmaceutical products and devices; • manage human resources information; • provide manufacturer rebate tracking, compliance, verification, and collection; • ensure payments to suppliers are made in accordance with negotiated terms; • ensure certain critical internal controls are operating properly; • prepare and present accurate financial statements and related information; and • integrate acquisitions. The Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if, among other things: • data errors are created by the information systems and remain undetected; • data processing capabilities are interrupted or fail to operate for an extended period of time; • the data processing system becomes unable to support the growth of the business; • data is lost or is unable to be restored; • data security is breached inadvertently or through malicious intent causing destruction or theft of the Company’s information; • problems occur with system upgrades and implementations, or such upgrades and implementations are not timely; • product maintenance and upgrades to the ERP system are no longer provided by suppliers; or • a revision is made to the estimated useful lives for certain computer software. 18 Table of Contents The Company’s future results of operations could be adversely affected by operational disruptions due to natural disasters, particularly in regions susceptible to hurricanes. A natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, or flood could cause severe damage and disruption to the Company’s operations, property, inventory, and the operations of its customers. The Company has developed disaster recovery plans, which include the use of third party back-up facilities for information system infrastructure. In addition, the Company maintains business interruption insurance for instances of catastrophic loss. There is a risk the Company may fail to execute its disaster recovery plans and incur losses that exceed insurance policy limits or are excluded from policy provisions. Furthermore, the Company may have difficulty obtaining business interruption insurance in the future or similar types of coverage may not be available in the markets in which it operates. The Company’s failure to execute or inability to execute any of its disaster recovery plans and obtain adequate insurance coverage could materially adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The terms of the Company’s indebtedness may impose restrictions on the ability to engage in certain business activities, limit its ability to obtain additional financing, and limit its flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions. Revolving Line of Credit The Company maintains an asset-based revolving line of credit (the “RLOC”), which permits maximum borrowings of up to $300.0 million and may be increased to $400.0 million at the Company’s discretion. Availability depends on a borrowing base calculation consisting of accounts receivable and inventory, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility requirements, and certain other reserves. Any deterioration in the amount or valuation of these assets, including the execution of the Company’s restructuring plan, could reduce the availability of borrowings under the RLOC. Increases in the level of the Company’s indebtedness or changes in the Company’s debt rating could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and reduce the Company’s ability to: • sell or transfer assets; • make certain permitted investments; and • incur additional indebtedness and liens. Operating cash requirements are normally funded by cash flows from operating activities and borrowings under the RLOC, which expires in 2016. The Company expects that sources of capital to fund future growth in the business will be provided by a combination of cash flows from operating activities, borrowings under the RLOC, cash proceeds from the sale the businesses outlined in the Company’s restructuring plan, proceeds from the Company’s debt offerings, capital markets, and/or other financing arrangements. However, changes in capital markets or adverse changes to the Company’s operations may disrupt the Company’s ability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity, including its ability to renew its RLOC in 2016 on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities, the Company may be forced to adopt strategies that may include the following: • sell assets; • restructure or refinance existing indebtedness; • seek additional equity capital; and • reduce or delay acquisitions and capital expenditures. 2012 Notes On February 24, 2012, the Company issued $250.0 million aggregate principal of 6.375% senior notes, which mature on March 1, 2022 (the “2012 Notes”). The operating and financial restrictions and covenants governing the RLOC and the indenture that governs the 2012 Notes may adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Under the 2012 Notes, the Company is required 19 Table of Contents to comply with certain operating and financial covenants, and, in certain circumstances, to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. In addition, the indenture governing the 2012 Notes contains financial and other covenants that limit the Company’s ability to engage in certain activities, some of which may be in the Company’s long-term best interests, including the ability to: • borrow money or sell preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • make certain types of investments, including acquisitions; • enter into agreements restricting the Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue guarantees of debt; and • sell assets or merge with other companies. The Company’s failure to comply with any of the restrictions or covenants in the indenture governing the 2012 Notes could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would result in the acceleration of all of the indebtedness under the Company’s debt agreements, including the indenture governing the 2012 Notes. 2008 Notes The Company’s common stock experiences price and volume fluctuations. Trading prices of the Company’s common stock may be influenced by operating results, projections, and economic, financial, regulatory, and other factors. In addition, general market conditions, including the level of, and fluctuations in, the trading prices of stocks generally, could affect the price of the Company’s common stock. In August 2008, the Company issued $230.0 million aggregate principal of 3.125% senior convertible notes (“2008 Notes”), which mature on August 1, 2014. The market price of the 2008 Notes is expected to be significantly affected by the market price of the Company’s common stock as well as the general level of interest rates and the Company’s credit quality. This may result in a significantly greater volatility in the trading value of the 2008 Notes than would be expected for nonconvertible debt securities the Company may issue. The price of the Company’s common stock may also be affected by possible sales of the Company’s common stock by investors who view the 2008 Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in the Company and by hedging or arbitrage activity involving the Company’s common stock as a result of the issuance of the 2008 Notes. The hedging or arbitrage activity, in turn, could affect the trading prices of the 2008 Notes and common stock. The Company faces potential litigation and liability exposure for product liability and other claims against the Company. The Company is a distributor of medical products, equipment, and pharmaceutical products. As a result, there is a risk that injury or other liability arising from the use or transportation of the products may occur and result in litigation against the Company. Accordingly, the Company maintains various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, to cover such exposure at amounts that management considers adequate. However, there can be no assurance the coverage maintained by the Company under various insurance policies is sufficient to cover future claims or will be available in adequate amounts at a reasonable cost. In many cases, the manufacturer of the product for any product liability claims may indemnify the Company; however, these agreements may not apply to products sourced through alternate channels. Additionally, there can be no assurance that indemnification agreements provided by manufacturers will adequately protect the Company, particularly the enforceability of indemnification provisions provided by overseas suppliers for globally-sourced products. These risks increase as more of the Company’s sales relate to globally sourced products and products purchased through alternate channels. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance or indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company, could harm the Company’s business, reputation, and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents In addition to product liability claims, the Company is subject to various legal and administrative proceedings and claims arising in the normal course of business, which are described in Footnote 19, Commitments and Contingencies, of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The outcomes of such proceedings or claims that are unasserted, pending, or known to be threatened could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company faces risk that its proprietary rights may infringe on the rights of third parties and that the protection offered by its proprietary rights may not be adequate. The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions to protect a number of its products, services, and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Company’s ongoing operations. There can be no assurance these protections will provide meaningful protection against competitive products or services or otherwise be commercially viable or the Company will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual property or enforcing its intellectual property rights against unauthorized users. From time-to-time, outside parties may assert infringement claims against the Company. If the Company was found to be infringing on other’s rights, the Company may be required to pay substantial damage awards, obtain a license, or cease selling the products that contain the infringing property. Such actions may be significant and result in material losses to the Company. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory and legal requirements could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. General The healthcare industry is highly regulated and the Company is subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, which include the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), the CMS, various State Attorneys General, State Medicaid fraud units, and other comparable agencies. Certain of the Company’s distribution service centers may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, HHS, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, and/or comparable state agencies as well as certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing, and sale. Enforcement activity with regards to these laws and regulations has increased recently and the Company expects it to continue to increase. In addition, the Company’s vehicle fleet is subject to extensive regulation by the Department of Transportation. Although the Company believes it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, any non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew, or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if changes were to occur to the laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s businesses, such changes could adversely affect many of the Company’s regulated operations or could otherwise restrict the Company’s existing operations, limit the expansion of the Company’s businesses, apply regulations to previously unregulated businesses, or otherwise affect the Company adversely. The costs associated with complying with federal and state regulations may be significant and failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including criminal and civil penalties, administrative sanctions, quarantine and destruction of inventory, fines, and other adverse actions. The manufacture, distribution, and marketing of certain of the Company’s products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of the government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations, or withdrawal of existing approvals. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in the Company and its products which could adversely affect the Company’s sales. In addition, third parties may file claims against the Company in connection with these issues. 21 Table of Contents Laws relating to physician dispensing Certain physician medication dispensing solutions could be adversely affected by legislation that would provide restrictions and /or limitations that could affect profitability. In addition, the Company expects that an increase in enforcement activity of the laws and regulations surrounding this type of business activity will continue and could potentially inhibit or eliminate this business, impairing the Company’s goodwill balance. Laws relating to healthcare fraud The Company is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. The federal government continues to increase enforcement of practices involving healthcare fraud. The Company’s relationships with manufacturers and healthcare providers subject the business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing, or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs, and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. While the Company believes that it is substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the applicable regulations are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by regulators or the courts. They may be interpreted or applied in a manner that could require changes in operations. In addition, the Federal False Claims Act creates a financial incentive for private individuals to bring suit on behalf of the government to recover funds paid pursuant to a false claim, which may include failure to comply with technical requirements for claim submission, coding, and billing. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including substantial fines or penalties, and other sanctions, including exclusion from participation in any federal healthcare program. Laws affecting the Company’s foreign operations The Company is subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. FCPA enforcement has increased significantly in recent years. The Company has implemented safeguards to prevent and discourage violations of the FCPA. There is no assurance, however, that these safeguards will be effective. If employees or other agents are found to have violated the FCPA, the Company could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Tax legislation initiatives and audits by tax authorities could adversely affect the Company’s net earnings and tax liabilities The Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state, and local governments and certain foreign governments. Various legislative initiatives may be proposed, including those to alter the taxation of the Company’s earnings from foreign operations, which could adversely affect the Company’s tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state, and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although the Company believes that its historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that the Company’s tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in any such challenge. From time to time the Company is audited by United States federal, state, local and foreign tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from recorded reserves, the Company’s future results may include unfavorable adjustments to tax liabilities. See Item 1 “Business – Regulatory Matters” for additional information. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of fiscal year 2012 and that remain unresolved. 