Item 1A. Risk Factors. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks A significant decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes adversely affects our sales volume and pricing. In 2006, the homebuilding industry experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in many of our markets. The decline followed an unusually long period of strong demand for new homes. Some of this strong demand resulted from “speculators” purchasing new homes with the intention of selling them at a profit, rather than with the intention of living in them. In many instances, the speculators do not have the financial resources to retain the purchased homes, and are selling these homes at depressed prices. Inventories of new homes have also increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. This combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. We have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control. Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. Although the market experienced some increase in mortgage interest rates during 2006, mortgage interest rates remain lower than their historical averages. If mortgage interest rates increase or if any of these other economic factors adversely change nationally, or in the markets where we operate, the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to purchase new homes could be adversely affected and cancellations of pending contracts could further increase, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. 8 Increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. During the recent time of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involve significantly lower initial monthly payments. As a result, new homes have been more affordable in recent years. However, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. In addition, if lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders may eliminate some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products or increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. In general, if mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it could become more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which would have an adverse affect on our sales volume. We sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; however, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales and certain limited repurchase obligations in the event of early borrower default. Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, the increased inventory of new homes we are currently experiencing requires that we decrease prices in order to attempt to maintain sales volume. This deflation in sales price, in addition to impacting our margins on new homes, also reduces the value of our land inventory and makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land in new home sales prices or, if we choose, to dispose of land assets. In addition, depressed land values may cause us to walk away from deposits on option contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the optioned land. A decline in land values could result in impairment write-downs. Some of the land we currently own was purchased at prices that reflected the recent high demand cycle in the homebuilding industry. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2006 we recorded material inventory valuation adjustments. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, some of these assets may be subject to future impairment write-downs, decreasing the value of our assets as reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders’ equity. We face significant competition in our efforts to sell homes. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. This competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. As demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. Operational Risks Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We are also subject to liability claims arising in the course of construction activities. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. However, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. 9 Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. Our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. Furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. Increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. We may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. Our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. During the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring additional suitable land could rise, and in some areas no suitable land may be available at reasonable prices. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers. This could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. Reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate some of these options, resulting in forfeiture of deposits we made with regard to the options. We may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. Our business requires that we are able to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. We currently use our $2.7 billion credit facility to provide some of the financing we need. In addition, we have from time-to-time raised funds by selling debt securities into public and private capital markets. The willingness of lenders to make funds available to us could be affected by reductions in the amounts they are willing to lend to homebuilders generally, even if we continue to maintain a strong balance sheet. If we were unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer materially. Our competitive position could suffer if we were unable to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. Given current market conditions, executing this strategy by identifying opportunities to purchase at favorable prices companies that are having problems contending with the current difficult homebuilding environment may be particularly important. Not properly executing this strategy could put us at a disadvantage in our efforts to compete with other major homebuilders who are able to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities. 10 Our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. At present, our access to capital is enhanced by the fact that our senior debt securities have an investment-grade credit rating from each of the principal credit rating agencies. If we were to lose our investment-grade credit rating for any reason, it would become more difficult and costly for us to access the capital that is required in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. We might have difficulty integrating acquired companies into our operations. The integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. The performance of our joint venture partners is important to the continued success of our joint venture strategies. Our joint venture strategy depends in large part on the ability of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. If a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. We could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. Our Financial Services segment could have difficulty financing its activities. Our Financial Services segment has warehouse lines of credit totaling $1.4 billion. It uses those lines to finance its lending activities until it accumulates sufficient mortgage loans to be able to sell them into the capital markets. These warehouse lines of credit mature in September 2007 ($700 million) and in April 2008 ($670 million). If we are unable to renew or extend these debt arrangements when they mature, our Financial Services segment’s mortgage lending activities may be adversely affected. Regulatory Risks Federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. Recent federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. The federal financial institution agencies recently issued their final Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Products (“Guidance”). This Guidance applies to credit unions, banks and savings associations and their subsidiaries, and bank and savings association holding companies and their subsidiaries. Although the Guidance does not apply to independent mortgage companies, it likely will affect the origination operations of many mortgage companies that broker or sell nontraditional mortgage loan products to such entities. This Guidance could reduce the number of potential customers who could qualify for loans to purchase homes from us and others. Government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. Some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. Approval of slow 11 growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. Such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as has been discussed recently, to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. Other Risks We have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. Stuart A. Miller, our President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of Class A and Class B common stock that enables Mr. Miller to cast approximately 49% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. That probably gives Mr. Miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. Mr. Miller’s voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. Also, because of his voting power, Mr. Miller may be able to authorize actions in matters that are contrary to our other stockholders’ desires. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 12 Executive Officers of Lennar Corporation Robert J. Strudler, who served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since 2004, passed away on November 7, 2006. Prior to Mr. Strudler’s appointment as Chairman in December 2004, he served as Lennar’s Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from May 2000 through November 2004. As of the date of this Report, our Board of Directors has not appointed a new Chairman. The following individuals are our executive officers as of February 8, 2007: Name Position Age Stuart A. Miller President and Chief Executive Officer 49 Jonathan M. Jaffe Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 47 Richard Beckwitt Executive Vice President 47 Bruce E. Gross Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 48 Marshall H. Ames Vice President 63 Diane J. Bessette Vice President and Controller 46 Mark Sustana Secretary and General Counsel 45 Mr. Miller has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since 1997 and is one of our Directors. Before 1997, Mr. Miller held various executive positions with us. Mr. Jaffe has served as Vice President since 1994 and has served as our Chief Operating Officer since December 2004. Before that time, Mr. Jaffe served as a Regional President in our Homebuilding Division. Additionally, prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Jaffe was one of our Directors from 1997 through June 2004. Mr. Beckwitt has served as our Executive Vice President since March 2006. In this position, Mr. Beckwitt is involved in all operational aspects of our company, with a focus on new business and strategic growth opportunities. Mr. Beckwitt served on the Board of Directors of D.R. Horton, Inc. from 1993 to November 2003. From 1993 to March 2000, he held various executive officer positions at D.R. Horton, including President of the company. Mr. Gross has served as Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer since 1997. Before that, Mr. Gross was Senior Vice President, Controller and Treasurer of Pacific Greystone Corporation. Mr. Ames has served as Vice President since 1982 and has been responsible for Investor Relations since 2000. Ms. Bessette joined us in 1995 and has served as our Controller since 1997. She was appointed a Vice President in 2000. Mr. Sustana has served as our Secretary and General Counsel since 2005. Before joining Lennar, Mr. Sustana held various legal positions at GenTek, Inc., a manufacturer of communication products, industrial components and performance chemicals. 