Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks may cause a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks The homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. A continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. The homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. As a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. Homebuilders’ inventories of unsold new homes have increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. In addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes, has depressed prices and reduced margins. This combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. For example, in 2007 we experienced a significant decline in our sales results, significant reductions in our margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions, and a higher than normal cancellation rate. We have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing. Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. During 2007, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. Although our finance company subsidiaries offer mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. Unavailability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including in some instances causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. Increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry prior to 2006, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse affect on our sales volume. 9 Land prices can be extremely volatile and our business requires that we invest in land positions well in advance of sales of finished homes on land we have acquired. We have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of the land we own and in investments in unconsolidated entities, and a continuing decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. Some of the land we currently own was purchased at high prices. Also, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that no longer are attractive, and in connection with those options we made non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, agreed to incur pre-acquisition land development costs. When demand fell, we were required to take substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition land development costs. Additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities. A majority of the valuation adjustments related to SFAS 144 valuation adjustments on assets of our unconsolidated entities. Furthermore, we recorded valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities in accordance with APB 18. The combination of land value write-downs and forfeitures in addition to valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities had a material negative effect on our operating results for fiscal 2006 and 2007, resulting in a loss for fiscal 2007. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, decreasing the assets reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders’ equity. Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. Although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increasing them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. Under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. That makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and has contributed to the significant reductions in the value of our land inventory. We face significant competition in our efforts to sell homes. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. This competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. As demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. Operational Risks Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We are also subject to liability claims arising in the course of construction activities. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. However, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors’ insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. As a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. 10 Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. Many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. Furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. Increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. Reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate a number of these options, resulting in significant forfeitures of deposits we made with regard to the options. If our financial performance further declines, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and senior debt securities. Our credit facility imposes certain restrictions on our operations. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, our credit facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. Also, because we currently do not have investment grade debt ratings, we can only borrow up to specified percentages of the book values of various types of our assets, referred to in the credit agreement as our borrowing base. Our operating results and the asset write-downs we recorded during fiscal 2007 caused our tangible net worth to be below the minimum required by the credit agreement and caused our borrowing base to be below the level necessary for us to borrow the full amount we expect to need for our operations. In January 2008, we completed an amendment to the credit facility that modified the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and restructured the borrowing base, effective as of November 30, 2007. Under this amendment, the commitment was reduced to $1.5 billion. The amendment limits the amount of permissible joint venture recourse obligations, requiring that those obligations be reduced quarterly through the end of our 2009 fiscal year. Failure to reduce such obligations in accordance with the agreed-upon schedule would constitute a violation of the terms of the amended credit facility. While $1.5 billion of borrowing capacity should be sufficient in the current depressed market, if markets strengthen, we might have to seek increased borrowing capacity. While we currently are in compliance with the financial covenants in the amended credit agreement, if we had to record significant impairments in the future, they could cause us to fail to comply even with the amended credit agreement debt covenants. In addition, if we default in the payment or performance of certain obligations relating to the debt of unconsolidated entities above a specified threshold amount, we would be in default under the amended credit agreement. Either of those events would give the lenders the right to cause any amounts we owe under that credit facility to become immediately due. If we were unable to repay the borrowings when they became due, that could entitle the holders of $2.2 billion of debt securities we have sold into the capital markets to cause the sums evidenced by those debt securities to become due immediately. We would not be able to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below the fair values, and the carrying values, of the assets. 11 Failure to comply with the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement in our credit facility is also a default under the $600 million conduit facility of our Financial Services segment. If recording significant impairments in the future caused us not to comply with the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth covenant in our credit facility, the lender under the $600 million conduit facility would have the right to terminate that conduit facility and cause any amounts we owe under the conduit facility to become due immediately. If we were unable to pay those borrowings when they become due, that could entitle holders of the debt securities we have sold into the capital markets to cause the sums evidenced by those debt securities to become due immediately. We may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. We currently use our credit facility to provide some of the financing we need. In addition, we have from time-to-time raised funds by selling debt securities into public and private capital markets. As is noted above, a recent amendment to our credit agreement reduced the commitment from $3.1 billion to $1.5 billion. The willingness of lenders to make funds available to us has been affected both by factors relating to us as a borrower, and by a decrease in the willingness of banks and other lenders to lend to homebuilders generally. If we were unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer materially. Our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms has been an important factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. Recently, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit rating, which will make it more difficult and costly for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. If we are subject to a further downgrade, it would exacerbate such difficulties. The credit facilities of our Financial Services segment will expire in 2008. Our Financial Services segment has a conduit and warehouse facility totaling $1.0 billion, recently reduced from $1.1 billion in order to obtain a waiver of a financial covenant. It uses those facilities to finance its lending activities until it accumulates sufficient mortgage loans to be able to sell them into the capital markets. The lines of credit consist of a conduit facility, that matures in June 2008 ($600 million) and a warehouse facility that matures in April 2008 ($425 million). In the past, we have been able to obtain renewals of these facilities at the times of their maturities. If we are unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature in April and June 2008, it could seriously impede the activities of our Financial Services segment. The risk of inability to renew or replace these facilities may be more significant if, as currently is the case, capital market participants are reluctant to purchase securities backed by residential mortgages. Our competitive position could suffer if we were unable to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. Given current market conditions, executing this strategy by identifying opportunities to purchase at favorable prices companies that are having problems contending with the current difficult homebuilding environment may be particularly important. Not properly executing this strategy could put us at a disadvantage in our efforts to compete with other major homebuilders who are able to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. We currently believe that we are likely to have sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the benefit of all of our deferred tax assets (consisting primarily of valuation adjustments, reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible for tax purposes, as well as operating loss carryforwards from losses we incurred during fiscal 2007). However, some or all of these deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to take advantage of them or we enter into transactions that limit our right to use them. If it became more likely than not that deferred tax assets would expire unused, we would have to create a valuation allowance to reflect this fact, which could materially increase our income tax expense, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which it is recorded. 12 We might have difficulty integrating acquired companies into our operations. The integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. For a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. However, as the homebuilding market deteriorated in 2006 and 2007, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. Most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures’ assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. Our joint venture strategy depends in large part on the ability of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. If a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. Also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have been given the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures’ obligations. However, particularly if our joint venture partners are having financial problems, we may have difficulty collecting the sums they owe us, and therefore, we may be required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. In addition, because we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures, we are usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. As a result, without joint venture partner consent, we may be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. Even if we are able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation may be insufficient to cover the costs we have incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. During 2007, we began to reduce the number of joint ventures in which we participate and the recourse indebtedness of such joint ventures. However, the risks to us from joint ventures in which we are a participant are likely to continue at least as long as the value of residential properties continues to decline. The unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. Some of the unconsolidated entities’ debt arrangements contain certain financial covenants. Additionally, certain joint venture loan agreements have minimum number of homesite takedown requirements in which the joint ventures are required to sell a minimum amount of homesites over a stated amount of time. Due to the deterioration of the homebuilding market, we are generally in the process of repaying, refinancing, renegotiating or extending our joint venture loans. This action may be required, for example, in the case of an expired maturity date or a failure to comply with the loan’s covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully finance, refinance, renegotiate or extend, on terms we deem acceptable, all of the joint venture loans that we are currently in the process of negotiating. If we were unsuccessful in these efforts, we could be required to repay one or more of these loans. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. As a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value. 13 If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans or fund them ourselves. We sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. If there is a decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and we could be required to fund our commitments to our buyers with our own financial resources or require our buyers to find other sources of financing. Our Financial Services segment could be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. A majority of the mortgage loans made by our Financial Services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. Therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes adversely affects the financial results of this segment of our business. We may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. Our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. For a number of years, we experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. That increased the price we had to pay to acquire land. Then, when demand for new homes began to drop beginning in 2006, we started to reduce our land inventory to bring it in line with the reduced rate at which we were absorbing land into our operations. While the current low demand for new single family homes is making it possible to purchase land at prices far below those we were required to pay prior to 2006, in the long term, competition for suitable land is likely to increase again, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring additional suitable land could rise, and in some areas suitable land may not be available at reasonable prices. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers. This could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. Regulatory Risks Federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. Recent federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. Government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. Some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. Approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction 14 materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. Such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. Other Risks We have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. Stuart A. Miller, our President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of Class A and Class B common stock that enables Mr. Miller to cast approximately 49% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. That effectively gives Mr. Miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. Mr. Miller’s voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. Also, because of his voting power, Mr. Miller may be able to authorize actions in matters that are contrary to our other stockholders’ desires. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 15 Executive Officers of Lennar Corporation The following individuals are our executive officers as of January 29, 2008: Name Position Age Stuart A. Miller President and Chief Executive Officer 50 Jonathan M. Jaffe Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 48 Richard Beckwitt Executive Vice President 48 Bruce E. Gross Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 49 Diane J. Bessette Vice President and Controller 47 Mark Sustana Secretary and General Counsel 46 Mr. Miller has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since 1997 and is one of our Directors. Before 1997, Mr. Miller held various executive positions with us. Mr. Jaffe has served as Vice President since 1994 and has served as our Chief Operating Officer since December 2004. Before that time, Mr. Jaffe served as a Regional President in our Homebuilding operations. Additionally, prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Jaffe was one of our Directors from 1997 through June 2004. Mr. Beckwitt has served as our Executive Vice President since March 2006. In this position, Mr. Beckwitt is involved in all operational aspects of our company. Mr. Beckwitt served on the Board of Directors of D.R. Horton, Inc. from 1993 to November 2003. From 1993 to March 2000, he held various executive officer positions at D.R. Horton, including President of the company. Mr. Gross has served as Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer since 1997. Before that, Mr. Gross was Senior Vice President, Controller and Treasurer of Pacific Greystone Corporation. Ms. Bessette joined us in 1995 and has served as our Controller since 1997. She was appointed a Vice President in 2000. Mr. Sustana has served as our Secretary and General Counsel since 2005. Before joining Lennar, Mr. Sustana held various legal positions at GenTek, Inc., a manufacturer of communication products, industrial components and performance chemicals. 