Risk Factors. You should consider the following matters when reviewing the information contained in this document. You also should consider the other information incorporated by reference in this document. We are a development stage company without revenues or profits. Northfield was founded in 1985 and is a development stage company. Since 1985, we have been engaged primarily in the development and clinical testing of PolyHeme. No revenues have been generated to date from commercial sales of PolyHeme. Our revenues to date have consisted solely of license fees. We cannot ensure that our clinical testing will be successful, that regulatory approval of PolyHeme will be obtained, that we will be able to manufacture PolyHeme at an acceptable cost and in appropriate quantities or that we will be able to successfully market and sell PolyHeme. We also cannot ensure that we will not encounter unexpected difficulties which will have a material adverse effect on us, our operations or our properties. We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. From our inception through May 31, 2008 we have incurred net operating losses totaling $220,216,000. We will require substantial additional expenditures to pursue regulatory approval for PolyHeme, to establish expanded commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities, and to establish marketing, sales and administrative capabilities. These expenditures are expected to result in substantial losses for at least the next few years and are expected to substantially exceed our currently available capital resources. The expense and the time required to realize any product revenues or profitability are highly uncertain. We cannot ensure that we will be able to achieve product revenues or profitability on a sustained basis or at all. Our financial resources are limited and we will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our business. As of May 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $21 million. We are currently utilizing our cash resources at a rate of approximately $20 million per year, and we expect to maintain this rate of cash utilization through the submission of our BLA to FDA. We anticipate that our existing financial resources will be adequate to permit us to continue to conduct our business only for the next 11 to 13 months. We will need to raise 16 additional capital to continue our business after this period. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and outcome of regulatory reviews, administrative and legal expenses, the status of competitive products, the establishment of manufacturing capacity and the establishment of collaborative relationships. We cannot ensure that additional funding will be available or, if it is available, that it can be obtained on terms and conditions we will deem acceptable. Any additional funding derived from the sale of equity securities is likely to result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. The opinion of our independent accountants with respect to our audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the continuation of our company as a going concern. In addition, we are subject to a putative class action lawsuit alleging violations of the federal securities laws. This matter involves risks and uncertainties that may prevent Northfield from raising additional capital or may cause the terms upon which Northfield raises additional capital, if additional capital is available, to be less favorable to Northfield than would otherwise be the case. We are developing a single product that is subject to a high level of technological risk. To succeed as a company, we must develop PolyHeme commercially and sell adequate quantities of PolyHeme at a high enough price to generate a profit. We may not accomplish either of these objectives. Our operations have to date consisted primarily of the development and clinical testing of PolyHeme. We do not expect to realize product revenues unless we successfully develop and achieve commercial introduction of PolyHeme. We expect that such revenues, if any, will be derived solely from sales of PolyHeme directly or through licensees. We also expect the use of PolyHeme initially to be limited to the acute blood loss segment of the transfusion market. The biomedical field has undergone rapid and significant technological changes. Technological developments may result in PolyHeme becoming obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to recover any portion of the research and development and other expenses we have incurred to develop and clinically test PolyHeme. Any such occurrence would have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. We are required to receive FDA approval before we may sell PolyHeme commercially, data from our clinical trials to date may not be adequate to obtain FDA approval, and we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials in the future. We anticipate submitting our BLA to FDA in the fourth calendar quarter of 2008. Our BLA will include information related to our clinical and preclinical studies as well as information relating to the chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, involved in the manufacture of PolyHeme. The preparation of a BLA is a complex and time-consuming process; we have already experienced delays and there can be no assurance that we will be able to submit our BLA within this time period. If the completion of our BLA takes longer than expected, FDA review, and potential approval for commercial sale, will also be delayed. We intend to seek priority review of our BLA, but there can be no assurance that FDA will classify the application as priority. In fact, there can be no assurance that the submission will be accepted for filing. FDA may issue a refusal to file letter, or RTF, if it believes the filing is inadequate or incomplete. FDA previously issued an RTF for our BLA submitted in 2001, which was based on data from our prior Phase II trauma trials in the hospital setting only. Subsequent discussion with FDA resulted in the mutual decision to proceed with our pivotal Phase III trial, which FDA agreed would satisfy the standards for approval of PolyHeme, if successful. That agreement, reached as part of a special protocol assessment, or SPA, is not a guarantee of approval, however, since new concerns about safety and efficacy have arisen, as described below. The clinical section of the BLA will include the results of our Phase III trial and the results of our prior clinical trials of PolyHeme. The primary efficacy endpoint of the Phase III trial was a dual superiority-noninferiority assessment of mortality at 30 days after injury. The results did not achieve the primary efficacy endpoint in the primary patient population as specified in the protocol. Further, although there was no statistically significant difference between the PolyHeme and control group for any of the primary safety endpoints for our trial, statistically significant differences favoring the standard of care were observed with respect to certain secondary safety endpoints, including the incidence of myocardial infarction. Based on these results, there can be no assurance that the data will be sufficient to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of PolyHeme for purposes of obtaining FDA approval. 17 Preclinical testing included extensive in-vitro and in-vivo studies of PolyHeme to assess product pharmacology and toxicology. These studies varied greatly with regard to animal species, protocol and product dosing, concomitant study drugs, and the timing and nature of the observations and measurements. Some of these studies have shown species dependent abnormalities in certain laboratory findings, including increases in aspartate aminotransferase, bilirubin, blood urea nitrogen, chromaturia, glucose, and troponin, and certain abnormal microscopic findings, including renal tubular proteinosis, Kupffer cell hypertrophy, karyomegaly, histiocytosis, cellular degeneration, and inflammation in organs such as the kidney, liver, or heart. These abnormalities were largely reversible and there was no evidence of organ failure. The clinical relevance of these findings is unclear when extrapolated to the human setting. There can be no assurance that these preclinical data will be considered sufficient for FDA approval. The BLA also addresses CMC issues. Our pilot manufacturing facility was first opened in 1990 with a design capacity to produce up to 10,000 units of PolyHeme per year. At the time it was Northfield’s plan to use the pilot facility for research and development purposes and the manufacture of clinical supplies under the appropriate current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, with future commercial scale manufacturing being performed in a new facility. Our current plan is to seek FDA approval for use of the pilot plant as our initial commercial manufacturing site, to be followed by expansion at a later date. The cGMP requirements for commercial manufacturing have evolved considerably over the past two decades and we have made multiple improvements and updates to our pilot facility, all of which required subsequent validation, in order to confirm cGMP compliance. These upgrades have consumed and continue to consume considerable time, effort and expense. We anticipate that the final capacity of this pilot facility will be approximately 5,000 to 7,500 units per year. There can be no assurance that the pilot facility will be considered to be in compliance with cGMP requirements. FDA review includes a balance of risks and benefits, but the current regulatory climate is shaped by heightened pressure on FDA from the public and Congress following high profile safety concerns about certain pharmaceutical products. FDA has become increasingly risk-averse, requiring even more substantial benefits to outweigh potential safety concerns. We believe that PolyHeme could offer substantial benefits to patients in the absence of red blood cells for transfusion. If approved, PolyHeme would be the first hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier for human use to receive FDA approval. We recognize, however, that our Phase III study did not fully reflect the patient population for whom PolyHeme may be most appropriate and that the data are therefore susceptible to varying interpretations. As a result, there is no guarantee that an agency focused more heavily on product safety risks will be willing to extrapolate an acceptable risk-benefit profile from the urban setting of our pivotal clinical trial, particularly in light of potential safety signals. FDA may accordingly refuse to approve PolyHeme for commercial sale, and may require us to conduct additional clinical trials of PolyHeme in order to obtain approval. Alternatively, FDA may be willing to approve PolyHeme on the basis of available evidence, but may significantly limit the indication for which it may be marketed, impose additional restrictions through a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, or require substantial postmarketing commitments to evaluate the use of PolyHeme in additional settings where it may be used or in additional patient populations, such as children . Any of these alternatives could impede access, raise costs and reduce the ability of Northfield to recoup investments. Additionally, in order to market PolyHeme for any additional uses in the United States, we will be required to obtain approval of a separate BLA, which will require the design and conduct of additional clinical trials, and will involve all of the uncertainties described above. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are critically dependent on receiving FDA approval of PolyHeme. A significant delay in achieving, or failure to achieve, FDA approval for commercial sales of PolyHeme would have a material adverse effect on us and could result in the cessation of our business. Even if we submit our BLA during the fourth calendar quarter of 2008, FDA’s increasing focus on drug safety may lead to a substantial delay in obtaining FDA approval of PolyHeme. A 2007 study conducted by an independent research organization found that product approvals have been increasingly delayed by FDA requests for additional safety and other data. FDA also faces an increased workload following many new responsibilities imposed by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, and these factors have combined to result in longer periods of time to approve new products. In this environment, we anticipate that PolyHeme’s approval, if it occurs at all, may take significantly longer than the six month goal established by FDA for priority review products. 18 There may be limitations in the supply of the starting material for PolyHeme. We currently purchase donated red blood cells from the American Red Cross and Blood Centers of America for use as the starting material for PolyHeme. We have an agreement with hemerica, Inc., a subsidiary of Blood Centers of America, under which hemerica would supply us with up to 160,000 units per year of packed red cells, the source material for PolyHeme. We have not purchased any blood supplies under this agreement to date. We have plans to enter into long-term supply arrangements with other blood collectors. We cannot ensure that we will be able to enter into satisfactory long-term arrangements with blood bank operators, that the price we may be required to pay for starting material will permit us to price PolyHeme competitively or that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of starting material. Additional demand for blood may arise from competing human hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier products, thereby limiting our available supply of starting material. The market may not accept our product. Even if PolyHeme is approved for commercial sale by FDA, the degree of market acceptance of PolyHeme by physicians, healthcare professionals and third party payors will depend on a number of factors, including: • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • effectiveness of our sales and marketing strategy; and • the price of PolyHeme compared with competing therapies. In addition, even if PolyHeme does achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products are introduced that are more favorably received than PolyHeme or render PolyHeme obsolete. We rely on third parties to perform data collection and analysis with respect to our clinical trial and to assist in the preparation of our BLA for PolyHeme, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from successfully commercializing our product. We do not have the personnel resources to conduct all of the activities relating to the collection and analysis of data from our clinical trial and the preparation and submission of our BLA for PolyHeme. We rely and will continue to rely on clinical investigators, third-party clinical research organizations and consultants to perform many of these functions. Our BLA may be delayed, suspended or terminated if: • these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines; • these third parties need to be replaced; or • the work performed by these third parties does not satisfy applicable regulatory requirements or is not usable for other reasons. Failure to perform by these third parties may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and prevent the commercialization of our product. Our activities are and will continue to be subject to extensive government regulation. Our research, development, testing, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of PolyHeme (as well as that of our collaborators) are, and will continue to be, subject to extensive regulation, monitoring, and approval by FDA and other government agencies, potentially in ways that we cannot currently predict. The regulatory approval process to establish the safety and effectiveness of PolyHeme and the safety and reliability of our manufacturing process has already consumed considerable time and resources. We have taken advantage of Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA. Our SPA reflects an agreement with FDA on our trial design, the trial endpoints and the broad concepts for clinical indications those endpoints would support in 19 an application for product approval by FDA. The SPA agreement, however, is not a guarantee of product approval by FDA or approval of any permissible claims about the product. In particular, it is not binding on the FDA if previously unrecognized public health concerns later come to light, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or effectiveness arise, the sponsor fails to comply with the protocol agreed upon, or FDA’s reliance on data, assumptions or information are determined to be wrong. Even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be changed by the sponsor company or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from any study that is the subject of the SPA agreement. In addition, the data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent FDA regulatory approval. Even if FDA accepts that our analysis of the Phase III data is sufficient to demonstrate effectiveness, our data may not demonstrate safety. We cannot ensure that, even after extensive clinical trials, regulatory approval will ever be obtained for PolyHeme. If PolyHeme is approved, it would be the first hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier for human use to receive FDA approval. Before we can market PolyHeme for any use in the United States, and for each subsequent indication, we must submit a BLA. Once we have prepared an application that we believe satisfies the statutory and regulatory standards for approval, there are many junctures at which the application may be delayed or fail. FDA may refuse to file the application, may refuse to designate the application for priority review, or may not be satisfied that PolyHeme is safe, pure, and potent, as a result of inadequate support from clinical trials, or concerns about our manufacturing facilities. The timing of each of these decisions is uncertain, and even after extensive clinical trials, there is no assurance that regulatory approval will ever be obtained for PolyHeme, particularly in light of FDA’s current conservative approach to risk. Moreover, if regulatory approval of PolyHeme is granted, it may be heavily constrained by FDA’s focus on drug safety, and the authorities granted FDA by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act. Approval may be authorized only for a narrow indication, which will limit the ability to market PolyHeme, and FDA may also require post-approval studies or REMS in order to protect patients, further limiting access and requiring substantial investments of company time and resources. If these studies, clinical experience and required adverse event reporting, additional trials to support new indications, or even meta-analyses made possible through FDAAA’s clinical trial disclosure requirements, demonstrate new risks, FDA may further restrict the approval of PolyHeme, or withdraw approval altogether. Additional laws and regulations may also be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of PolyHeme, and/or negatively impact post-approval marketing, including laws or regulations relating to the price or cost-effectiveness of medical products. Any of these scenarios are likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Further, the manufacturing, testing, distribution, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, reporting and record-keeping related to PolyHeme will also be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements following approval. Among other things, we will be required to comply with current good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting requirements, and FDA’s general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. We are also subject to inspection and market surveillance by FDA for compliance with these and other requirements. Any enforcement action resulting from failure, even by inadvertence, to comply with these requirements, or those imposed in the future, could negatively affect the manufacture and marketing of PolyHeme. We currently manufacture PolyHeme at a single location and, if we were unable to utilize this facility, our ability to manufacture PolyHeme will be significantly affected, and we will be delayed or prevented from commercializing PolyHeme. We currently manufacture PolyHeme at a single location and we have no alternative manufacturing capacity in place at this time. Although we have made substantial ongoing investments in the maintenance of our manufacturing facility, there can be no assurance that the we will not experience disruptions in our use of the facility due to age or condition of our facility. In addition, damage to this manufacturing facility due to fire, contamination, natural disaster, power loss, unauthorized entry or other events could force us to cease the manufacturing of PolyHeme. Any lack of supply could, in turn, delay any potential commercial sales. In addition, if the facility or the equipment in the facility is significantly damaged, destroyed or becomes inoperable for any reason, we may not be able to replace our manufacturing capacity for an extended period of time, and our business, financial condition and results of 20 operations will be materially and adversely affected. We intend to seek FDA approval of this facility for the commercial production of PolyHeme if and when marketing approval of PolyHeme is obtained. This facility will be subject to FDA inspections and extensive regulation, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices and FDA approval. Failure to comply may result in enforcement action, which may significantly delay or suspend manufacturing operations. Failure to increase manufacturing capacity may impair PolyHeme’s market acceptance and prevent us from achieving profitability. Our pilot manufacturing facility was first opened in 1990 with a design capacity to produce up to 10,000 units of PolyHeme per year. At the time it was Northfield’s plan to use the pilot facility for research and development purposes and the manufacture of clinical supplies under the appropriate current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, with future commercial scale manufacturing being performed in a new facility. Our current plan is to seek FDA approval for use of the pilot plant as our initial commercial manufacturing site, to be followed by expansion at a later date. The cGMP requirements for commercial manufacturing have evolved considerably over the past two decades and we have made multiple improvements and updates to our pilot facility in an effort to confirm compliance. These upgrades have consumed and continue to consume considerable time, effort and expense. We anticipate that the final capacity of this pilot facility will be approximately 5,000 to 7,500 units per year. In June 2006, we purchased the 106,000 square foot building in Mt. Prospect, Illinois in which our pilot manufacturing facility is located and plan to construct an expanded commercial manufacturing facility at this site if FDA approval for the marketing of PolyHeme is received. We currently do not have sufficient available funds to permit us to begin construction of this facility and we will need to raise additional funds before we are able to proceed with our planned manufacturing expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds for this purpose. If we are successful in raising sufficient funds to begin construction of a commercial manufacturing facility, we expect that completion of the facility, including FDA inspection and validation, will require approximately 24 to 30 months. Therefore, even if FDA approval for the marketing of PolyHeme is obtained, we may not be able to produce PolyHeme in commercial quantities for a substantial period of time. A commercial-scale manufacturing facility will be subject to FDA inspections and extensive regulation, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices and FDA approval of scale-up changes. Failure to comply may result in enforcement action, which may significantly delay or suspend manufacturing operations. We have no experience in large-scale manufacturing, and there can be no assurance that we can achieve large-scale manufacturing capacity. It is also possible that we may incur substantial cost overruns and delays compared to existing estimates in building and equipping a large-scale manufacturing facility. Moreover, in order to seek FDA approval of the sale of PolyHeme produced at a larger-scale manufacturing facility, we may be required to conduct additional studies with product manufactured at that facility. A significant delay in achieving scale-up of commercial manufacturing capabilities would have a material adverse effect on sales of PolyHeme. There are significant competitors developing similar products. We may be unable to compete successfully in developing and marketing our product. If approved for commercial sale, PolyHeme will compete directly with established therapies for acute blood loss and may compete with other technologies currently under development. We cannot ensure that PolyHeme will have advantages which will be significant enough to cause medical professionals to adopt it rather than continue to use established therapies or to adopt other new technologies or products. We also cannot ensure that the cost of PolyHeme will be competitive with the cost of established therapies or other new technologies or products. The development of hemoglobin-based oxygen-carrying products is a continuously evolving field. Competition is intense and may increase. Several companies have developed or are in the process of developing technologies which are, or in the future may be, the basis for products which will compete with PolyHeme. Certain of these companies are pursuing different approaches or means of accomplishing the therapeutic effects sought to be achieved through the use of PolyHeme. Some of these companies may have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs, more extensive facilities and more experience in testing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing medical products. We cannot ensure that one or more other companies will not succeed in developing technologies or products which will become available for commercial use prior to PolyHeme, which will be more effective or less costly than PolyHeme or which would otherwise render PolyHeme obsolete or non-competitive. 21 Further, the regulatory climate for follow-on or “generic” versions of biological products approved under a BLA in the United States remains uncertain. Currently, there is no established statutory or regulatory pathway for the abbreviated approval of follow-on versions of biological products approved under a BLA, meaning that even after our intellectual property protections expire, a company seeking to market a copy of PolyHeme would have to conduct its own clinical trials and submit a completely independent BLA. However, members of Congress have expressed increasing interest in legislation to establish a statutory path for follow-on biological products. At this time, we cannot know with certainty when any such process may be adopted, or how it might affect our intellectual property rights, but any such process has the potential to have a material effect on PolyHeme’s commercial success. We do not have experience in the sale and marketing of medical products. If approved for commercial sale, we currently intend to market PolyHeme in the United States using our own sales force. We have no experience in the sale or marketing of medical products, which are subject to significant regulations not applicable to the sale and marketing of other types of goods and services. PolyHeme may only be marketed and promoted for its approved use(s), and our sales force will be subject to a variety of regulatory and industry restrictions on their ability to aggressively pursue potential customers. If our sales and marketing teams fail to comply with these restrictions, we could be subject to significant liability. Our ability to implement our sales and marketing strategy for the United States will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain a marketing staff and sales force with sufficient technical expertise. We cannot ensure that we will be able to establish an effective marketing staff and sales force, that the cost of establishing such a marketing staff and sales force will not exceed revenues from the sale of PolyHeme or that our marketing and sales efforts will be successful. Our profitability will be affected if we incur product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage. The testing and marketing of medical products, even after FDA approval, have an inherent risk of product liability. Claims by users of PolyHeme, or by others selling PolyHeme, could expose us to substantial product liability. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the total amount of $10 million. However, our profitability would be adversely affected by a successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage. We cannot ensure that product liability insurance will be available in the future or be available on reasonable terms. Our pivotal Phase III trial was conducted under a federal regulation that allows research to be conducted in certain emergent, life-threatening situations using an exception from the requirement for informed patient consent. Under the applicable federal regulation, an IRB may give approval for patient enrollment in trials in emergency situations without requiring individual informed consent provided specific criteria are met. Individual informed consent is often a defense raised against product liability claims asserted by patients participating in clinical trials of medical products. We cannot ensure that IRB approval of patient enrollment in our trial, even if given in full compliance with the applicable federal regulations, will provide us with a defense against product liability claims by patients participating in our trial. It is also possible that we may be subject to legal claims by patients objecting to being enrolled in our trial without their individual informed consent, even if the patients do not suffer any injuries in connection with our trial. We depend on the services of a limited number of key personnel. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of a limited number of skilled managers and scientists. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our success will depend, among other factors, on the recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and technical personnel. We have historically provided incentive compensation to our officers and employees in part through grants of stock options and restricted stock under our equity compensation plans. Decreases in the trading price of our common stock, however, have substantially reduced the value of equity compensation awards made to our officers and employees in prior years. Our ability to provide competitive compensation to our officers and employees may also be adversely affected by our limited capital resources and anticipated need to raise substantial additional capital to continue our business. We cannot ensure that we will be 22 able to retain existing employees or to attract and retain additional skilled personnel on acceptable terms as a result of these factors as well as competition for such personnel among numerous large and well-funded pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. Our ability to generate revenue from our product will depend on reimbursement and drug pricing policies and regulations. Our ability to achieve acceptable levels of reimbursement for PolyHeme by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will have an effect on our ability to successfully commercialize PolyHeme. We cannot be sure that reimbursement in the United States, Europe or elsewhere will be available for PolyHeme or, if reimbursement should become available, that it will not be decreased or eliminated in the future. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize PolyHeme, and may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on PolyHeme. Third-party payers increasingly are challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the changes in health insurance programs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including PolyHeme. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could harm our ability to sell PolyHeme. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect this legislation or regulation would have on our business. In the event that governmental authorities enact legislation or adopt regulations which affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, demand for PolyHeme may be reduced, thereby harming our sales and profitability. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent our product from being marketed abroad. We have entered into license agreements with Pfizer Inc. and Hemocare Ltd., an Israeli corporation, to develop, manufacture and distribute PolyHeme in certain European, Middle Eastern and African countries. Following an update from Northfield and internal analysis, Pfizer has communicated that the product does not fit within their corporate strategies and that Pfizer would not participate in any clinical or commercialization activities. We are currently finalizing the termination of the license issued to Pfizer. Northfield does not anticipate any significant cash needs to terminate this license. The license agreements permit Hemocare to sell PolyHeme in return for the payment of royalties based upon sales of PolyHeme in the licensed territories. In order for Hemocare or anyone else, including us, to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we or our licensees must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process entails all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We and our licensees may fail to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by FDA. We and our licensees may not be able to file for, and may not receive, necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our product in any market. If we or our licensees fail to obtain these approvals, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual reports filed with the SEC. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. 23 Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant costs, the commitment of time and operational resources and the diversion of management’s attention. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or other hazardous chemicals. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with these laws, rules and regulations, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Third parties may also have the right to sue to enforce compliance. Moreover, it is possible that increasingly strict requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement policies could require us to make significant capital expenditures. The operation of a manufacturing plant entails the inherent risk of environmental damage or personal injury due to the handling of potentially harmful substances, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs and liabilities in the future because of an accident or other event resulting in personal injury or unauthorized release of such substances to the environment. In addition, we generate hazardous materials and other wastes that are disposed of at various offsite facilities. We may be liable, irrespective of fault, for material cleanup costs or other liabilities incurred at these disposal facilities in the event of a release of hazardous substances by such facilities into the environment. We are subject to a putative class action lawsuit. We and Dr. Steven A. Gould, Northfield’s Chief Executive Officer, and Richard De Woskin, Northfield’s previous Chief Executive Officer, are subject to a putative class action pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois Eastern Division, purportedly brought on behalf of a class of Northfield’s shareholders. The complaint alleges, among other things, that during the period from March 19, 2001 to March 20, 2006, the named defendants made or caused to be made a series of materially false or misleading statements and omissions about Northfield’s elective surgery clinical trial and business prospects in violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. Plaintiffs allege that those allegedly false and misleading statements and omissions caused the purported class to purchase Northfield common stock at artificially inflated prices. As relief, the complaint seeks, among other things, a declaration that the action be certified as a proper class action, unspecified compensatory damages (including interest) and payment of costs and expenses (including fees for legal counsel and experts). If the outcome of this lawsuit is unfavorable to Northfield, or Northfield determines that it is advisable to enter into a settlement of the lawsuit, Northfield could be required to pay significant monetary damages or make significant settlement payments to the plaintiffs in the lawsuit. While Northfield maintains directors and officers liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of this insurance will be available with respect to all or part of any damages, costs or expenses that may be incurred by Northfield in connection with the aforementioned putative class action lawsuit. In addition, Northfield is a party to indemnification agreements under which it may be required to indemnify and advance defense costs to its current and former directors and officers in connection with this putative class action lawsuit. Even if this lawsuit is ultimately resolved in favor of Northfield, Northfield still may incur substantial legal fees and expenses in defending the lawsuit. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for PolyHeme as well as our technology and know-how. Our policy is to seek to protect PolyHeme and our technologies by, among other methods, filing United States and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of PolyHeme. The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our technology will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and 24 enforcing those claims once granted. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or the length of term of patent protection that we may have for PolyHeme. Our United States patents have various expiration dates; the latest to expire of our United States patents has a term that extends to 2025. Our broadest United States patent was originally scheduled to expire in 2006 but was extended by the United States Patent Office to 2007. Earlier this year, however, PTO reversed its decision on the basis that PolyHeme was no longer under “continuous development” in light of the length of time that had expired without product approval after FDA’s original Refusal to File decision in 2001. During the intervening period, we conducted our pivotal Phase III trial, and are currently preparing a BLA submission for 2008. We believe that this constitutes the requisite due diligence in seeking regulatory approval necessary to retain eligibility for interim patent term extension, and are currently evaluating our options to appeal PTO’s determination. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in recovering this patent protection, and if we are, we cannot be certain that any additional extensions will be granted. In any event, no extensions for this patent are possible beyond 2011. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of PolyHeme, it is possible that, before PolyHeme can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. We rely on trade secrets and other confidential information to maintain our proprietary position. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. Individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive and time consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. 25 Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may not prevail in any litigation or interference proceeding in which we are involved. Even if we do prevail, these proceedings can be very expensive and distract our management. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications that are infringed by our product or technologies. Our success depends in part on avoiding the infringement of other parties’ patents and proprietary rights. In the United States, patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, there may be patents of which we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We may inadvertently infringe third-party patents or patent applications. These third parties could bring claims against us that, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could additionally cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of PolyHeme in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with PolyHeme. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of PolyHeme in other markets not covered by the infringement action. Furthermore, we may suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any infringement action against us would likely delay the regulatory approval process, harm our competitive position, be very costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price could be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in response to a number of factors, many are which are beyond our control, including: • regulatory developments relating to our PolyHeme product; • announcements by us relating to the results of our clinical trials of PolyHeme; • developments relating to our efforts to obtain additional financing to fund our operations; • announcements by us regarding transactions with potential strategic partners; • announcements relating to blood substitute products being developed by our competitors; • changes in industry trends or conditions; • our issuance of additional equity or debt securities; and • sales of significant amounts of our common stock or other securities in the market. 26 In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the biotechnology industry market in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We have received notice that our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market unless we are able to achieve compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid requirement. Our common stock currently trades on the Nasdaq Global Market. In June 2008, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that for 30 consecutive business days our share price had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we have until December 8, 2008 to regain compliance. The Nasdaq notice stated that if, at any time before December 8, 2008 the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, or such longer period as may be required under Market Place Rule 4450(e)(2), the Nasdaq staff would provide written notification that we had achieved compliance with the minimum bid requirement. Through August 14, 2008, we have not achieved compliance with the minimum bid requirement and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve compliance before December 8, 2008. The Nasdaq notice also indicated that if we do not regain compliance by December 8, 2008, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that our common stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. At that time, we may appeal the staff’s determination to the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we would be permitted to apply to transfer our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for initial inclusion set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), other than the minimum bid price requirement, at that time. If our application is approved, we would be afforded an additional period of up to 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance while our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we fail to achieve compliance during this period while our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market, Nasdaq may fully delist our common stock. Following full delisting, our common stock would trade on an over-the-counter basis and would not be listed or traded on any securities exchange. The delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market is likely to reduce the trading volume and liquidity in our shares and may lead to further decreases in the trading price of our shares. Similar reductions in trading volume, liquidity and trading price are likely to occur if our shares are fully delisted from Nasdaq and begin trading in the over-the-counter market. The delisting of our shares may also prevent investors from purchasing shares of our common stock using margin loans provided by brokers or other financial institutions. Our ability to raise additional equity capital, which is critical to the continuation of our business, would also likely to be adversely affected by the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our board of directors may consider possible actions, such as a reverse stock split, combination of shares, or other recapitalization transaction, in order to increase the trading price of our common stock to achieve compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid requirement. At our annual meeting of stockholders to be held on October 2, 2008, it is expected that our stockholders will be asked to consider and approve a resolution authorizing our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation to effect a reverse split of our common stock. If the proposal is approved by our stockholders, our board of directors would be authorized to effect a reverse split of our common stock in a range of between three and seven pre-split shares for each post-split share. Our board of directors would be given the discretion whether to implement the reverse stock split and, if implemented, to determine the number of pre-split shares, within the foregoing range, to be combined into each post-split share. There can be no assurance that our stockholders will approve the proposal to effect a reverse split of our common stock or, if approved by our stockholders, that our board of directors will determine that it is advisable to effect such a split. If a reverse stock split is completed, there can also be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will increase as a result of the split or that the split will permit us to achieve compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid requirements. 27 Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and bylaws could discourage potential takeover attempts. Our certificate of incorporation contains a “fair price” provision which requires approval of the holders of at least 80% of our voting stock, excluding shares held by certain interested stockholders and their affiliates, as a condition to mergers or certain other business combinations with, or proposed by, any holder of 15% or more of our voting stock, except in cases where approval of our disinterested directors is obtained or certain minimum price criteria and other procedural requirements are satisfied. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences and issue shares of preferred stock. These provisions, and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 