Item 1A. Risk Factors Rising interest rates may negatively impact the Company's results of operations. The Company's results of operations are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets such as loans, mortgage-backed securities and investment portfolios and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. With a further rise in short-term interest rates and a flat or inverted yield curve, deposits and borrowings may reprice upwards faster than the rates on loans, mortgage-backed securities and investments, causing additional compression in the net interest margin and may have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Rising interest rates can also affect borrowers' demand for loan products as historical experience has shown that as interest rates rise, origination levels may decline. A downturn in the local economy can affect profitability due to the geographic concentration of our market area. The Company gathers deposits primarily from the communities its serves, which are the Ironbound section of the City of Newark and surrounding areas, suburban Essex county and selected areas of central and southern New Jersey. The 21 Company originates loans secured by properties located throughout New Jersey and areas in eastern Pennsylvania. A downturn in the local economy in any of these market areas may have an adverse effect on customers' demand for the Company's products, borrowers' ability to service their debt, as well as the quality of the Company's loan portfolio. Declining real estate values can cause loans to become inadequately collateralized, potentially exposing the Company to a risk of loss. Changes in estimates of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The Company's allowance for loan losses is established based on management's evaluation of the probable credit losses in the loan portfolio. Management believes that they use the best information available to establish the allowance for loan losses. However, changes in market conditions, borrowers' ability to service their debt, real estate values, or in federal regulatory policies, which are unforeseeable and beyond the Company's controls, may cause the allowance for loan losses to become inadequate and earnings may be affected. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations "-Critical Accounting Policies." Risks in changes in the laws and regulations of regulatory agencies. The Bank is subject to comprehensive regulation and examination by the OTS, as the Bank's primary regulator, and the FDIC, as its insurer of deposits. The OTS has extensive authority over the operations of savings associations, which are subject to periodic examinations and reporting requirements. FDIC may also conduct examinations and require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions. In addition, these regulatory agencies have the authority to impose restrictions on operations. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the legislative policies for regulation of financial institutions. Any future changes in legislative policies, regulations or laws of regulatory agencies are beyond the Company's control and may have a material effect on the Company's operations. Strong competition in originating loans and attracting deposits may have an adverse effect on the Company's profitability. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in both the origination of real estate and other loans and in attracting deposits. The Company competes based on the quality of services offered, interest rates offered, fees charged, types of products, quality customer service and convenient business hours and branch locations. Competition in originating loans is primarily from commercial banks, other savings associations, mortgage banking companies and credit unions. Competition in attracting deposits is primarily from commercial banks, other savings associations, credit unions and brokerage houses. In order to compete, the Company, from time to time, may offer slightly higher rates in order to attract deposits and stimulate loan originations. This may impact the Company's profitability, depending on the level of interest rates offered, and may have a negative effect on the net interest margin. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 