ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below should be carefully considered. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional issues and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We have a history of losses and negative cash flows on a quarterly and annual basis, and may experience additional losses from operations, which raises doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced net losses in each of the quarterly and annual periods since the first quarter of 2003. In the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we incurred losses of $19.2 million and $39.8 million, respectively. At December 31, 2006, we had working capital of approximately $13.3 million. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate additional revenue and continue to decrease our expenditures. We can give no assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenue or reduce expenditures to be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. These factors, among others, raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Even if we do ultimately achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 8 We will likely need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our unrestricted cash balances at December 31, 2006 were approximately $12.0 million. These cash balances will likely not be sufficient to fund operating and other expenses for the next twelve months or until we reach profitability. We can give no assurance that our cost reduction initiatives will yield the results we anticipate or that we will generate sufficient cash flows from the sales of our services. As a result, we will likely need to secure additional financing to execute our business plan. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If adequate financing is not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to sell assets or further reduce expenditures, or both, and we may not be able to pursue all of our business objectives. An inability to secure additional funding could force us to liquidate our business or otherwise seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We need to expand call volume, increase our efficiencies and substantially lower the cost of delivery of our services in order to be successful. In order to successfully execute our business strategies, we need to increase the volume of calls we service. We intend to increase call volume by seeking additional customers, including landline carrier customers, as well as seeking additional business from our existing customers and by offering our services to other types of customers. Because of increasing competitive pressures and declining per call pricing, we need to substantially reduce the cost of delivery of our directory assistance services in order to compete with automated services, offshore contractors, and other low-cost providers. If we are unable to expand our wireless business or attract significant landline business revenues on a cost effective basis or at all, or if we are unable to substantially reduce the cost of delivering our services, we may be unable to achieve and maintain profitability. We have been restructuring our business to focus on providing directory assistance and information services on a wholesale basis. Even after giving effect to this restructuring, we will likely not have sufficient cash to execute on our current business plan. We have taken steps to restructure certain aspects of our business, including closing call centers, reducing our work force, discontinuing our Infone service, and renegotiating existing agreements with customers. We may be forced to take additional steps to lower our costs. However, restructuring (for example severing employees and terminating leases) takes resources and time to implement. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in lowering our costs further or otherwise implementing the restructuring. There can also be no assurance that following any restructuring we will have sufficient cash reserves to achieve profitability. Furthermore, any restructuring could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute on our business plan. We have contracts with a limited number of carrier customers. If we fail to extend these contracts or sign new ones, or if these contracts are terminated prior to their expiration, our business could be adversely affected. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our continuing revenues. Some of our other contracts are non-exclusive, contain performance and other standards, and call volume may be transferred to alternative providers within the terms of the agreements. If we fail to extend or replace our contracts, or other contracts are terminated prior to their expiration, our business could be adversely affected. Although we seek to increase the number of our customers, opportunities to obtain customers with large call volumes are limited because a small number of companies dominate the telecommunications market. This limits the potential carrier customer base and our expansion opportunities through carrier relationships. We have a long sales cycle which may cause delays that adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. A customer’s decision to contract for our directory assistance and information services involves a significant commitment of technical and other resources. As a result, we have a long sales cycle for both new contracts and contract extensions, particularly with large customers. The selling process involves demonstrating the value-added benefits of outsourcing directory assistance and using our services rather than those of our competitors. Additionally, the effectiveness of our marketing to other types of customers, including businesses, governmental units or callers attracted through other means or affiliations, is difficult to predict at any given point in time, given a wide variety of potential business circumstances. Any delays due to lengthy sales cycles could significantly affect our revenue growth and operating results. Our inability to achieve desired pricing levels could adversely affect our ability to return to profitability. We are subject to competitive pressures with respect to pricing that have affected our operations and profitability and could adversely affect our ability to return to profitability. Generally, our pricing levels have declined and, in the future, may continue to decline in response to competition in the industry. The prices that we charge our carrier customers are subject to 9 the terms of our contracts. The changing telecommunications market, the relative leverage of the negotiating parties and the overall competitive landscape can significantly impact contract pricing negotiations. In addition, other sources of directory assistance, such as automation and those provided by offshore call centers and the Internet provide low cost forms of competitive services. We charge our carrier customers on a per call basis, with prices varying in some cases based on call volume. If we continue to reduce our prices without a corresponding increase in call volume, there could be an adverse impact on our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Alternative methods for delivery of directory assistance and information services could reduce the demand for our services. Our revenues continue to come primarily from providing Enhanced Directory Assistance and information services to telephone users. However, information can be transmitted in other ways, including more intelligent communications devices and other technologies and protocols, and over the Internet. For example, as the Internet continues to develop and becomes easier to use and access, technologies may be developed that decrease or eliminate the demand for telephone-based or voice-based directory or information services. Widespread acceptance of existing and developing technologies and protocols, such as voice recognition and wireless application protocol, could adversely affect our business. Our call volume could decline if telephone users change their usage habits and rely on the Internet or other alternatives as their primary source for information. We face substantial competition from a number of other companies. Many of our competitors in the directory assistance market, including the regional Bell operating companies, have far greater resources and better name recognition. The regional Bell operating companies also may have the advantage of being the local telephone carrier in their area of operation. Some of these companies are or may be developing their own versions of directory assistance services. We also face competition from a number of other independent directory assistance providers. Individual competitors may also seek to provide low cost domestic or offshore service or to provide automation of directory assistance services. If we are unable to compete successfully, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and appropriately respond to many factors, including pricing decisions by carriers, decisions by carriers to force consumers to accept lower-quality information services products, the introduction of new services and products by our competitors, changes in subscriber preferences, changes in economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by our competitors. The rapidly changing telecommunications market could unfavorably affect us. The telecommunications market is subject to rapid change and uncertainty that may result in competitive situations which could unfavorably affect us. These changes and uncertainties are due to, among other factors, the following: · Mergers, acquisitions and alliances among carriers and among our competitors, which can result in fewer carriers in the marketplace, lost carrier customers, increased negotiating leverage for newly affiliated carriers and more effective competitors; · Changes in the regulatory environment, which may affect us directly, by affecting our ability to access and update listings data at a reasonable cost, or indirectly, by restricting our carrier customers’ ability to operate or provide a competitive service; · Increasing availability of alternative methods for delivery of directory assistance and other information services, including the Internet; · Evolving industry standards, including frequent technological changes and new product introductions; and · Changes in retail prices offered to consumers for our services or for services perceived to be substitutes for ours, in whole or in part. Our quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly in part due to factors outside our control. In the future, as in the past, our quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly as a result of a number of factors. We cannot control many of these factors, which include, among others: · Changes in the telecommunications market, including the addition or withdrawal of carriers from the market, changes in technology and increased competition from existing and new competitors; 10 · The timing and expense of our call center network expansion or contraction, including changing staffing and infrastructure expenses related to anticipated call volume changes; · The addition or expiration of contracts with carrier customers; · Changes in our or our competitors’, customers’ or suppliers’ pricing policies; · Lengthy sales cycles for new and extended contracts; · The timing of the commencement of our services under new or existing contracts with our carrier customers, which depends in part on the customers’ ability to adapt their networks and billing systems to allow them to transfer calls to us; · Lack of market acceptance or delays or increased development costs related to the introduction of our services or features; and · General economic conditions. For these reasons, investors should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as an indication of any future results. Our future operating results could fall below the expectations of securities industry analysts or investors. Any such shortfall could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in our operating results would likely increase the volatility of our common stock price. Our operating results are significantly affected by our ability to accurately estimate the amount and timing of call volume, which is often subject to factors outside of our control. Our operating results are significantly affected by costs incurred for expanding or contracting staffing and infrastructure. We incur significant staffing and general and administrative costs in contracting or expanding operations, as necessary, and in anticipation of additional or reduced call volume under our customer contracts. If such call volume does not depart or arrive as scheduled, in the amount anticipated, or at all, our operating results can be adversely affected. This could increase our operating expenses without a corresponding increase in revenues. Regulations affecting our customers and suppliers and future regulations to which we may be subject may adversely affect our business. While in the past, our principal business as a wholesale supplier of Enhanced Directory Assistance and information services for telecommunications common carriers has not been directly regulated, the offering of those services to the public by our customers is regulated by various federal and state regulatory authorities. The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) has jurisdiction over all U.S. telecommunications common carriers to the extent they provide interstate or international communications services, including, in our case, the use of our local networks to originate or terminate such services. The application of the FCC’s current and/or future policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Other aspects of our services may be subject to state or federal regulation, such as regulations relating to the confidentiality of data and communications, copyright issues, and taxation of services. We cannot predict the actions that federal, state, and local regulators may take or what impact such actions would have on our business. If we are unable to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop new services and features, we may not succeed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new services and features that are accepted by the marketplace and cost effective for us to provide as a part of our overall service offerings. The development of new services and features can be very expensive. Further, given rapid technological changes, frequent introduction of new products, services and features, and changing consumer demands that characterize our industry, it can be difficult to correctly anticipate future changes in technology and industry standards. If we fail to develop new services and features, encounter difficulties that delay the introduction of such services and features, or incorrectly anticipate future changes and develop services and features that are not accepted by the marketplace or are not cost effective for us to provide as a part of our overall service offerings, we may not succeed at our business. 11 Systems failures, delays and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. Our success also depends on our ability to provide reliable services. Our operations could be interrupted by significant damage to or failure of our network, our connections to third parties, our computer hardware or software or our customers’ or suppliers’ computer hardware or software. Any such significant damage or failure could disrupt the operations of our network and the provision of our services and result in the loss of current and potential customers. In addition, if call volume increases, we may need to expand and/or upgrade our technology and network hardware and software in order to provide services. Capacity limits on our technology and network hardware and software may make it difficult for us to expand and upgrade our systems in a timely and economical manner. If we are unable to obtain or adequately update directory or information content at an economical cost, we may be unable to provide current levels of service or improve our service. Our operations depend on our access to the names, telephone numbers and other information that we supply directly to callers or we use in providing our services. The availability, cost, quality and usefulness of such data varies widely across geographic regions. If we are unable to obtain or update directory or information content at an economical cost, we may be unable to provide current levels of service, improve our Enhanced Directory Assistance service, or provide new services and features. Ultimately, the satisfaction of callers and our carrier customers, and our ability to renew and extend our current customer contracts and enter into new customer contracts, depends on the quality of services we provide. The quality of our services is directly related to the quality of our listings data and other information content. As we rely on a limited number of suppliers, an abrupt loss of any key supplier could adversely affect our business operations or delay our development efforts. We rely on some key suppliers to provide us with programming and engineering services and to license us their technology. An abrupt loss of any current key supplier could cause a disruption in our operations or a delay in our development efforts and could adversely affect our business operations. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified senior management, sales and technical personnel and call center operators, or our call center staff is unionized, our operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, sales and technical personnel and call center operators. The loss of the services of our senior management and technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our strategic objectives. In addition, increasing our revenues is critical to our success. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and productive sales personnel, we may not be able to increase our revenues which would have an adverse effect on our plans and our business. We also depend on the continued service of our call center operators, who we hire from the available labor pool. The ability to attract and retain qualified senior management, sales and technical personnel, operators and other skilled employees is extremely important to the operation of our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals, or we are required to pay significantly higher wages and other benefits to such individuals, or if our call center staff is unionized, it could adversely affect our business operations. We find it more difficult to recruit and retain qualified individuals during periods of low unemployment and, therefore, may be subject to increasing pressure to offer higher wages and other benefits during such periods. In our call center hiring, we may also feel the effects of the telecommunications industry in general, which has widespread union membership among its operators and other workers. If we are unable to use and protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to provide some of our Enhanced Directory Assistance and information services or profitably operate our business. We regard aspects of our Enhanced Directory Assistance, and their features and processes, to be proprietary. If we are unable to use and protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to provide some of our Enhanced Directory Assistance and/or our personal assistant services or profitably operate our business. To a limited extent, we rely on a combination of trade secret, patent and other intellectual property law, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect our intellectual property. However, these measures may be difficult and costly to meaningfully enforce. In addition, attempts to enforce our intellectual property rights may bring into question the validity of these rights. Litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property rights can result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and other resources. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements. Our common stock listing was transferred from the Nasdaq National Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) on February 22, 2006 because we had been unable to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum 12 bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq National Market. In July, 2006 we effected a one-for-four reverse stock split and regained compliance with the Nasdaq listing requirements. However, if we are unable to meet continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may delisted in the future. If our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity of our common stock could be reduced and an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. Our common stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant fluctuations in response to a number of factors. These factors include, among others, those that affect our quarterly and annual operating results and the following: · Announcements of extensions, expirations or changes in our contracts and the effects on our call centers and infrastructure of such activities; · Announcements relating to material events concerning our customers; · Actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; · Securities filings or other public announcements by our large shareholders; · Announcements of new product initiatives or growth strategies; and · General market conditions. From January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, our common stock price fluctuated, on a post one-for-four reverse stock split basis, from a low of $1.32 per share to a high of $3.77 per share and has on several occasions fluctuated more than 10% during a trading day. These trading prices may change significantly and arbitrarily. In addition, broad market factors affecting telecommunications or technology stocks may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. General economic, political and market conditions, including interest rate changes and recession, may also adversely affect our stock price. Oregon law and provisions of our charter could make the acquisition of our Company more difficult. We are authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and our Board of Directors has the authority to fix the preferences, limitations and relative rights of those shares without any vote or action by the shareholders. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, may discourage bids for the common stock at a premium over the market price and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. In addition, provisions under Oregon law limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over our Company. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of the Board of Directors and may deter efforts to obtain control of our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 