Item 1A. Risk Factors If the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, earnings will be reduced as the reserve is replenished. The establishment of the allowance for loan losses is based on a high degree of judgment and estimation. At December 31, 2005 the allowance was $2.6 million or 0.54% of the loans receivable balance of $491 million. Several factors could render the reserve inadequate, possibly over a short period of time: a single large loss, a severe and sustained economic downturn in the markets in which the Company’s loans are located, and a general decline in real estate values. These factors could produce charges to the allowance in excess of the amount provided. Replenishing the reserve would reduce earnings. If the Company must raise the interest rates it pays to attract or retain its deposits, earnings will be reduced. The Company’s assets are primarily funded with deposits. The Company faces intense competition, both to retain current deposits and to attract new deposits that can be used to fund the Company’s growth. If the Company raises the interest rates it pays on a significant amount of these deposits, its interest expense could be substantially higher and earnings substantially lower. Failure to attract or retain key individuals could severely affect the Company’s business objectives. Because the Company is a relatively small community bank, it operates with a small number of key people in key positions such as in executive administration, loan production, branch administration, and operations. Replacing these individuals, or expanding the Company’s business with additional human resources, requires the Company to compete for talent against companies that are much larger and possess much greater resources. Failure to attract and retain key individuals could negatively affect the Company’s business and earnings. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, and changes to regulations can require costly adjustments to the Company’s practices and procedures. In addition to the rule-making bodies under which most public companies operate, the Company’s primary subsidiary is a bank and operates under rules promulgated by governmental or quasi-governmental regulatory bodies that oversee lending, deposit-taking, and the operations of a bank. These agencies can issue rules which can impose costly compliance procedures upon a bank, can require a bank to modify or discontinue certain of its business practices, or impose other requirements, any of which can serve to reduce the Company’s earnings or reduce 22 its franchise value. The Company is vulnerable to interest rate risk. Most of the Company’s assets and liabilities are interest rate sensitive, and changes in the level of market interest rates or the shape of the yield curve can have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s value and earnings. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock can be negatively affected by regulation of its bank subsidiary. The Company is a thrift holding company and its bank subsidiary is the primary source of cash with which it pays the cash dividend on its common stock. Regulations require a bank that is a subsidiary of a thrift holding company to file either a notification or an application with its primary regulator when it seeks to pay a dividend to its parent company. If in the judgment of its primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the payment of a dividend by the Company’s bank subsidiary presents safety and soundness concerns, or is otherwise not permitted by regulation, the notification or application can be denied, thereby eliminating the primary source of cash with which the Company pays its dividend to its shareholders. Insider control and provisions in the Company’s charter and by-laws can be a deterrent to a sale of the Company. As of December 31, 2005 insiders control approximately 21% of the voting power of the Company’s stockholders. In addition, there are provisions in the Company’s charter and by-laws that can have the effect of making it difficult for a dissident shareholder or other party to force a sale of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 