ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS. The Company's expansion of its current product lines is contingent, among other things, upon the Company's ability to develop and/or acquire additional lines of complementary institutional furniture which can be purchased or manufactured in a cost efficient manner and sold at competitive prices in the Company's markets. Developing viable new products requires capital and takes time. The Company may not be able to develop new products at a speed or cost that allow us to timely capitalize on market opportunities or counter competition. Over the past few years, the Company worked at developing a new generation multipurpose room table and invested substantial capital resources in its development. The Company ultimately was unsuccessful at developing a cost-effective repeatable process to manufacture the table. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be successful in developing new products to expand its product line. OUR NEW FENCE PRODUCT MAY NOT BE ACCEPTED BY THE MARKET. The Company has recently begun manufacturing a fence product using the assets initially purchased for its next generation table line. This is a new product line and market for the Company. Further, the Company does not have previous experience with this new product line or product market. Developing viable new products requires capital and takes time. The Company may not be able to launch this new product at a speed or cost that will allow us to timely capitalize on market opportunities or counter competition and customers may not be willing to accept the new product. Also, since this is a new product line, the Company cannot predict the long-term product performance. Although the Company has performed testing on the product and believes that its performance will be better than competitive products, it cannot ensure that this will be the case. 12 A DOWN-TURN IN THE FURNITURE INDUSTRY WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Beginning in fiscal 2002, and continuing through fiscal 2004, the Company faced one of the most significant down-turns ever in the global furniture industry. Industry analysts reported declines in the United States office furniture market of 18% for calendar year 2001, 19% in 2002, and 4% in 2003. These years constitute an unprecedented three consecutive year decline in an industry that only had three down years between 1971 and 2000. Companies throughout the world reduced their spending across many capital goods categories, including furniture. Revenue and order rates across the industry fell throughout calendar 2001, 2002, and 2003 as customers delayed and canceled orders. Demand for furniture products continued to soften as corporate profits remained under pressure during recent years. Demand for the Company's products was also adversely impacted by declines after September 11, 2001 in the hospitality and recreational markets. Terror threats, war, economic uncertainty, and related uncertainties contributed to the downturn. Although the outlook has improved, if conditions do not continue to improve, or begin to decline again, the Company would be negatively impacted. INFLATION AND INCREASING RAW MATERIAL COSTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and 2006, the Company experienced rapidly increasing costs in most of its raw materials, including steel, plastic, and wood. In addition, rising fuel costs have increased transportation costs. In response to these increases, the Company implemented price increases on most of its product lines. The Company has been able to achieve most of the price increases, but some product lines have been slower in responding to the price increase. However, the Company cannot predict whether it will be able to achieve the implemented price increases or what effects the price increases might have on sales volumes. Sales may decline. Although the Company is unable to predict whether the price of its raw materials will continue to increase, further increases would erode the Company's gross margin without additional price increases for the Company's products. COMPETITION COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. The Company is facing increased competition because of innovations in competitors' products and lower pricing brought on by the general down-turn in the furniture industry. More of the Company's competitors have begun introducing products that directly compete with the products offered by the Company, including competitors who are manufacturing their products offshore at a lower cost. The Company's products are generally more expensive than products sold by the Company's competitors in the same markets. The Company believes that competition for its products is generally based on product quality and characteristics, service and price. Unless the Company adapts and responds to these competitive threats, the Company will face margin pressure from low cost producers. Only certain elements of the Company's products are patented, so unpatented elements could be reverse engineered and duplicated by competitors who are able to develop the manufacturing equipment and processes to do so. The Company's continued success will depend upon, among other things, its ability to continue to manufacture and market high quality, high performance products at prices competitive in the markets served by the Company. Although the Company is developing new products, it is uncertain at this time what the marketplace acceptance will be for these products. 13 OFF-SHORE MANUFACTURING BY COMPETITORS IS PUTTING INCREASED MARGIN PRESSURE ON US. The Company is facing increased competition, particularly in its chair product lines, from off-shore manufacturing, primarily from Asia. These lower cost producers are putting margin pressure on us. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in countering this competition through its own offshore manufacturing efforts. A POTENTIAL DECREASE IN DEMAND FOR HEALTHCARE SEATING PRODUCTS WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Although the Company believes that the specialty healthcare seating market is less subject to economic pressures than the Company's multipurpose room operations, the medical and healthcare industry is more subject to regulatory changes that could affect the demand for Broda's products. Recent changes in the durable medical equipment marketplace relating to government reimbursements for these products in the United States at the federal and state level has negatively impacted Broda's business. The Company is not currently aware of any other regulatory changes in the near future that would have a substantial and negative impact on this business. During the past few years, the Company has hired direct employees in the United States to market its healthcare seating products, replacing some of the dealers and distributors that it previously had in those areas. Although the Company intends to expand this presence in coming years, the Company may be unable to expand its geographic markets for healthcare seating products. THE LOSS OF KEY CUSTOMERS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. The loss of any key customers of the Company would decrease the Company's revenue. Given the current environment in the furniture industry, the Company cannot assure that it would be able to replace such revenue or reduce its costs and, therefore, the Company's profitability would be adversely impacted. THE LOSS OF KEY RAW MATERIAL SOURCES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Both the plastic used in the Company's products and the tubing used in its table legs and chairs are manufactured according to Company specifications. Portions of the Company's multipurpose room operations operate without substantial inventory levels of raw materials by depending on certain key suppliers to provide raw materials on a "just-in-time" basis. The Company believes that necessary materials are generally available from alternate suppliers. However, any shortages or significant interruptions in the delivery of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the Company's production schedule and operations. AN INCREASE IN WARRANTY SERVICE COSTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. The Company intends to continue to offer warranties covering materials and workmanship on its existing products and anticipates providing a warranty covering materials and workmanship for all complementary product lines developed or acquired by the Company. While the Company has implemented improved quality control measures that it expects will reduce warranty claims, it is possible that warranty servicing costs will increase in future periods. Furthermore, the Company is not in a position to anticipate the additional warranty service costs that may be incurred as a result of the Company's expansion into new or complementary product lines. 14 WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO FUTURE VARIATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS. The Company's short-term profitability could be adversely affected by its decision to develop or acquire complementary product lines, hire additional sales staff, and pursue additional acquisitions. Various factors, including acquisition related expenses, the ability to find and train qualified personnel, operational transitions, timing of new product introductions and the cost of developing and marketing new products and penetrating new markets as well as changes in product mix, may have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to experience profitability at historical rates. The Company may experience temporary fluctuations in operations and quarterly variations in the future. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Forward-looking statements contained herein include plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products, marketing, customers, product line expansions, warranty expense, and cost reductions to preserve margins. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on certain assumptions that may not be realized. Actual results and outcomes may differ materially from those discussed or anticipated. All forward-looking statements involve predictions and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those discussed above as well as general economic and business conditions, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results and those presently anticipated or projected. Readers should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. The considerations described above and elsewhere in this filing could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause the Company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any views or statements expressed with respect to future periods. Important factors and risks that might cause such differences, include, but are not limited to those factors referenced above and in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 15 