ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Our non-performing assets increased significantly in 2008 from $21.9 million, or 2.27% of loans receivable at December 31, 2007 to $74.8 million, or 7.12% of loans receivable at December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to the weakened economy and the softening real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken these assets may not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. If this occurs, we may experience losses, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provision for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. We also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The earnings of the Company are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, government borrowing and other factors beyond management’s control may also affect interest rates. If the Company’s interest-earning assets mature, reprice or prepay more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, a decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice, or, in the case of deposits, are withdrawn by the accountholder, more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period, an increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Given the Company’s mix of assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2008, a falling interest rate environment would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The effect on our deposits of decreases in interest rates generally lags the effect on our assets. The lagging effect of deposit rate changes is primarily due to the Bank’s deposits that are in the form of certificates of deposit, which do not re-price immediately when the federal funds rate changes. Fixed rate loans increase the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable rate loans decrease the risks to a lender associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks. As interest rates rise, the payment by the borrower rises to the extent permitted by the terms of the loan, and the increased payment increases the potential for default. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there is likely to be an increase in prepayment activity on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates. Under these circumstances, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, investments and other interest-rate sensitive assets including mortgage servicing rights, and the Company’s ability to realize gains on the sale or resolution of assets. This type of income can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on a number of different factors, including the interest rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and increased loan loss reserve requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company has increased its commercial real estate loan originations, increasing the risk in its loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of its loan portfolio, the Company has expanded its commercial real estate lending during recent years. Commercial real estate lending has increased as a percentage of the Company’s total loan portfolio from 28.1% at December 31, 2004 to 35.2% at December 31, 2008. Much of the increase in the Company’s commercial real estate portfolio over this period has been in land development loans. Commercial real estate loans generally, and land development loans in particular, present a higher level of risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residences. This greater risk is due to several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced (for example, if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If the Company’s commercial real estate loan portfolio fails to perform, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In 2008, the Company experienced a significant increase in non-performing commercial real estate loans as a result of the economic slowdown which increased our loan loss provision and had a negative impact on our earnings. 30 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds could negatively impact the value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights. The capitalization, amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights are subject to significant estimates. These estimates are based upon loan types, note rates and prepayment speed assumptions. Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds may have a material effect on the net carrying value of mortgage servicing rights. In a declining interest rate environment, prepayment speed assumptions will increase and result in an acceleration in the amortization of the mortgage servicing rights as the assumed underlying portfolio declines and also may result in impairment as the value of the mortgage servicing rights declines. Declines in home values could decrease our loan originations and increase delinquencies and defaults. Declines in home values in our markets could adversely impact results from operations. Like all banks, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular, a significant decline in home values would likely lead to a decrease in new home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in these portfolios. In 2008, the average sale price of homes in our primary market decreased 4.7% from the prior year. Further declines in the average sale prices could lead to higher loan losses. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets could adversely impact results from operations. Like all banks, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular a significant decline in home values or reduced commercial development in the Company’s markets could have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which the Company conducts business, and in the southern Minnesota and northern Iowa area in general. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southern Minnesota counties of Fillmore, Freeborn, Houston, Mower, Olmsted and Winona and portions of Steele, Dodge, Goodhue and Wabasha counties, as well as Marshall and Tama counties in Iowa. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Recent weakness in the general economy has had a negative impact on our commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolios and non-performing loans increased significantly in 2008. Additionally, because the Company has a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. A significant decline in home values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in these portfolios. New or revised tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources of potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulations, are described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Regulation and Supervision.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. 31 Table of Contents In January 2007, the Company received notification that the Minnesota Department of Revenue was proposing adjustments of $2.2 million to the Company’s Minnesota state tax liability related to the tax treatment of the inter-company dividends paid to the Bank by a former subsidiary in 2002, 2003 and 2004. The Company is challenging the proposed adjustments, the case was heard in the Minnesota state tax court in the fourth quarter of 2008 and a ruling is expected in the second quarter of 2009. A tax exposure reserve has been established based on a range of probable outcomes; however, the final liability may exceed the amount of the reserve. If the final resolution of the proposed adjustment exceeds the tax exposure reserve established by the Company, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Our participation in the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) imposes restrictions on us affecting our capital stock and our compensation practices that may be adverse, and greater restriction is possible in the future. As a participant in the U.S. Treasury’s CPP program, we issued $26 million of series A preferred stock to the Treasury in December 2008. Among other limitations, we are subject to certain restrictions relating to distributions on or repurchase of our common stock. Prior to the earlier of December 23, 2011, or the date on which all of the series A preferred stock has been redeemed or Treasury has transferred all of the shares of series A preferred stock to third parties that are not affiliates of Treasury, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, declare or pay a dividend or make any distribution on our common stock, other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.25 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared on our common stock prior to October 14, 2008, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction; dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock; and dividends or distributions in connection with a stockholders’ rights plan of rights or a class or series of our stock that expressly provides that it ranks junior to the series A preferred stock as to dividends and liquidation. So long as any shares of our series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full on our series A preferred stock, we may not pay or declare any dividend on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. In addition, prior to the earlier of December 23, 2011, or the date on which all of the series A preferred stock has been redeemed or Treasury has transferred all of the shares of series A preferred stock to third parties that are not affiliates of Treasury, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other capital stock or other equity securities, or any trust preferred securities that we issued, other than for limited exceptions. These restrictions limit our ability to manage our capital resources generally and, specifically, to return capital to our common stockholders, and may adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. As a CPP participant, we are also subject to various executive compensation restrictions that limit our flexibility in determining appropriate compensation for our senior executive officers and other more highly compensated employees and may adversely affect the attraction and retention of management and other key employees. The recent federal stimulus bill amended the compensation provisions of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 that governed CPP participants at the time of Treasury’s investment in HMN. Among other things, the current restrictions (i) prohibit any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation to our five most highly compensated employees unless it is in the form of long-term restricted stock that does not fully vest during the period in which Treasury holds the preferred stock, (ii) prohibit payment of severance for any reason to our executive officers and any of the next five most highly compensated employees, (iii) require us to recover from our executive officers and the next 20 most highly compensated employees any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation when based on materially inaccurate earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, (iv) require us to permit a non-binding stockholder vote on executive pay, (v) require Treasury to conduct a review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation paid to our executive officers and the next 20 most highly compensated employees to determine whether such payments were inconsistent with the amended law or TARP or were otherwise contrary to the public interest and to seek their recovery if not, and (vi) prohibit incentive compensation to executive officers that encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of our company. These restrictions apply to us so long as Treasury holds any of our securities (unless it holds only our 32 Table of Contents warrants). Treasury is required to adopt regulations requiring each recipient of CPP funds to meet appropriate standards for executive compensation and corporate governance, including those listed above. The stock purchase agreement with Treasury permits Treasury unilaterally to modify the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after its execution in applicable federal statutes. Whether by means of the foregoing, the exercise of general oversight powers or otherwise, additional, more restrictive legislative or regulatory changes are possible in the future with which we would be obligated to comply and which may affect adversely our operations, the ownership of our capital stock, our financial condition and results of operations, our management and other aspects of our business. There is no assurance we will be able to employ the CPP funds profitably. We received gross proceeds of $26 million as a result of the Treasury’s purchase of our series A preferred stock and common stock warrant. To date, we have employed these funds to reduce outstanding liabilities and increase our capital position. While this positions us to grow our loan portfolio, in view of the decreased demand for loans we have experienced, the anticipated reduced demand for loans in 2009, and the continuing credit risks we face in our existing loan portfolio, there is no assurance that we can deploy these funds in a manner that would permit us to realize a positive return to our common stockholders on this capital. Additionally, there are political and regulatory forces to which CPP funding recipients are being subjected that strongly advocate that the CPP funding be used for lending purposes. While there is presently no express requirement to lend any or all of these funds or restriction on use of CPP funding for any other purpose, such an obligation or restrictions could be imposed in the future. In such event, we may be compelled to deploy these funds in a manner inconsistent with the business judgment of management of our Company, that may adversely affect our results of operations and result in increased credit risk. The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technological and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of the Company’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Strong competition within the Company’s market area may limit profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans, as described under the heading “Business — Competition.” Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of the Company’s competition for deposits; however, the Company also competes with financial institutions that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, the Company faces additional and significant competition for funds from money market and mutual funds, securities firms, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions located in the same communities and those that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over the Company. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This competitive strategy places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. 33 Table of Contents Loss of large checking and money market deposit customers could increase cost of funds and have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company has a number of large deposit customers that maintain balances in checking and money market accounts at the Bank. The ability to attract these types of deposits has a positive effect on the Company’s net interest margin as they provide a relatively low cost of funds to the Company compared to certificates of deposits or advances. If these depositors were to withdraw these funds and the Bank were not able to replace them with similar types of deposits, the Banks cost of funds would increase and the Company’s results of operation would be negatively impacted. For instance, $82.2 million in escrow deposits held in money market accounts which paid an average rate of 2.34% were disbursed in 2008. These deposits generally were replaced with brokered certificates of deposit which paid an average rate of 4.45% in 2008. Because of the limited size of the Company, losses on a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in earnings. Due to the Company’s limited size, individual loan amounts can be large relative to the Company’s earnings for a particular period. If one or a few relatively large loans become non-performing in a period and the Company is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results of that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a small number of loans may be disproportionately larger than the impact of such loans on the quality of the Company’s overall loan portfolio. For example, in the third quarter of 2008, the Company made a loan loss provision of $12.0 million as the result of a commercial loan that was charged off due to the apparent fraudulent activities related to the underlying collateral on the loan. The loan loss provision contributed to a net loss of $7.1 million in the quarter. Subsequent to year end, our internal loan limits were lowered to $4.5 million per borrower. However, existing borrowers with relationships over that limit were “grandfathered” in and it will take time to reduce the size of all existing relationships below the new limit. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. The USA Patriot Act and Bank Secrecy Act may subject us to large fines for non-compliance. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If these activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although the Company has developed policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, regulators may take enforcement action against the Company in the event of noncompliance. 34 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and its cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered through its network of sixteen banking offices. Wholesale funding sources principally consist of borrowing lines from the FHLB of Des Moines and the Federal Reserve Bank and brokered certificates of deposit obtained from the national market. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on brokered funds and borrowing in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. The Bank actively manages its liquidity position and monitors it using cash flow forecasts. Based on these forecasts, management has determined that it has adequate liquidity available at December 31, 2008. However, changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability or access to borrowed funds and the brokered deposit market could potentially have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further information about the Company’s liquidity position is available on page 18 in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the Annual Report to Security Holders for the year ended December 31, 2008. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 