ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. Risks Related to our Business The Company and the Bank are subject to the restrictions and conditions of the Supervisory Agreements with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, and the Federal Reserve Board, or FRB. The OCC has also established an Individual Minimum Capital Ratio (IMCR) for the Bank. The Bank failed to comply with the IMCR at December 31, 2011 and, at such date, the Bank and the Company were not in full compliance with the Supervisory Agreements. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreements or the IMCR could result in enforcement actions against us, including the imposition of cease and desist orders and monetary penalties. The Company and the Bank each entered into Supervisory Agreements effective February 22, 2011 with the Office of Thrift Supervision, or OTS, the predecessor prior to July 21, 2011 to the OCC, the Bank’s primary banking regulator, and to the FRB, the Company’s primary banking regulator. The Supervisory Agreements supersede the memoranda of understanding between the Company and the Bank and the OTS dated December 9, 2009. In accordance with the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, the Company submitted a two year consolidated capital plan by May 31, 2011 to the OTS upon which the FRB may make comments, and to which the FRB may require revisions. The Company submitted to the FRB updated two-year capital plans in January 2012 and January 2013. We must operate within the parameters of the capital plan and are required to monitor and submit periodic reports on our compliance with the plan. Also, under the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, without the consent of the FRB, we may not incur or issue any debt, guarantee the debt of any entity, declare or pay any cash dividends or repurchase any of our capital stock, enter into any new contractual arrangement or renew or extend any existing arrangement relating to compensation or benefits with any director or executive officer, or make any golden parachute payments. The Bank’s Supervisory Agreement primarily relates to the Bank’s financial performance and credit quality issues. In accordance with the Bank’s Supervisory Agreement, the Bank submitted a two year business plan and the OCC accepted the plan with the expectation that the Bank will meet the capital requirements in connection with the individual minimum capital requirement, or IMCR, described below. The Bank submitted updated two-year plans in January 2012 and January 2013. The Bank must operate within the parameters of the business plan and is required to monitor and submit periodic reports on its compliance with the plan. The Bank also submitted a problem asset reduction plan that the OCC accepted. The Bank must operate within the parameters of the final problem asset plan and is required to monitor and submit periodic reports on its compliance with the plan. The Bank also revised its loan modification policies and their programs for identifying, monitoring and controlling risk associated with concentrations of credit and improved its documentation of the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, without the consent of the OCC, the Bank may not declare or pay any cash dividends, materially increase the total assets of the Bank, enter into any new contractual arrangement or renew or extend any existing arrangement related to compensation or benefits with any directors or officer, make any golden parachute payments, or enter into any significant contracts with a third party service provider. 33 Table of Contents The failure of the Company and the Bank to meet the anticipated earnings and capital forecasts set forth in their respective plans, resulted in a single exception of noncompliance with the Supervisory Agreements as of December 31, 2011. The Company and the Bank were in compliance with the Supervisory Agreements as of December 31, 2012. In addition, the OCC established in August 2011 an IMCR for the Bank. An IMCR requires a bank to establish and maintain levels of capital greater than those generally required for a bank to be classified as “well-capitalized.” Effective December 31, 2011, the Bank was required to establish, and subsequently maintain, core capital at least equal to 8.5% of adjusted total assets, which was in excess of the Bank’s 7.14% core capital to adjusted total assets ratio at December 31, 2011. In February 2012, the Bank received a notice from the OCC arising out of its failure to establish and maintain its IMCR of 8.5% core capital to adjusted total assets at December 31, 2011. The Bank was required to submit to the OCC by April 30, 2012 a further written capital plan of how it will achieve and maintain its IMCR, and a contingency plan in the event the IMCR is not achieved through the Bank’s primary plan. In April 2012, the Bank submitted the required revised capital and contingency plan to the OCC to which the OCC may make comments and require revisions. Because of the improved financial results and the decrease in assets experienced during 2012, the Bank’s core capital ratio improved to 9.68% at December 31, 2012. As a result, the Company believed the Bank was in compliance at that time with the terms of the IMCR and that each of the Company and the Bank were in compliance with their respective Supervisory Agreements. The Bank’s failure to comply with the terms of the IMCR at December 31, 2011 was, and its failure to continue to comply in the future can be, deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice and could subject it to further limits on growth and such legal actions or sanctions as the OCC considers appropriate. There can be no assurance that the Company and the Bank will maintain compliance with their respective Supervisory Agreements or the IMCR. Under applicable banking regulations, the failure to satisfy the terms of the Supervisory Agreements and the IMCR, and failure to otherwise comply with applicable requirements as they arise, could subject the Company, the Bank and its directors and officers to such restrictions, legal actions or sanctions as either the FRB or the OCC considers appropriate. Possible sanctions include among others (i) the imposition of one or more cease and desist orders requiring corrective action, which are enforceable directives that may address any aspect of the Company or Bank management, operations or capital, including requirements to change management, raise equity capital, dispose of assets or effect a change of control; (ii) civil money penalties; and (iii) downgrades in the prompt corrective action capital category capital adequacy status of the Company and the Bank. These regulatory actions may significantly restrict the ability of the Company and the Bank to take operating and strategic actions that may be in the best interests of stockholders or compel the Company and the Bank to take operating and strategic actions that are not potentially in the best interests of stockholders. Our capital may not be adequate to meet all our needs and requirements. We have taken a number of steps, and may be required to take additional steps, to meet our capital needs. These actions may reduce our base of earning assets and core deposits and may dilute our shareholders or result in a change of control of the Company or the Bank. There can be no assurance that we will satisfactorily meet our required capital needs. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations and protect depositors of the Bank. As a result of significant losses in recent years, elevated levels of nonperforming and other classified assets, regulatory requirements, including the IMCR, the Supervisory Agreements, and other capital demands, such as our preferred stock dividend requirements (which due to deferral since February 2011 have been accumulating and compounding at a stated rate of 5% per annum, increasing to 9% per annum in February 2014), it has been necessary for us to increase the Bank’s capital and core capital ratio. In order to improve and maintain its capital ratios and comply with the Bank IMCR and the Supervisory Agreement, the Bank has, among other things, been working to improve its financial results, reduce non-performing assets, and decrease the asset size of the Bank. From December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2012, our assets decreased $492 million, from $1,144 million to $653 million. We anticipate this strategic direction to continue throughout 2013. These reductions in assets decrease our ability to earn net interest income, our primary source of income. 34 Table of Contents In March 2012, the Bank also sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities associated with its Toledo, Iowa branch, which resulted in a decrease in the Bank’s overall assets of approximately $37 million. If capital conditions were to deteriorate, the Bank may also determine it to be necessary or prudent to dispose of other non-strategic assets. These actions have resulted, and may result in changes in the Bank’s assets, liabilities and earnings, some of which may be material, during the period in which the action is taken or is consummated or over a longer period of time. Depending upon the operating performance of the Bank, the need for continued compliance with the Supervisory Agreements and the IMCR, and our other liquidity and capital needs, we may find it prudent subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors, or necessary if required by federal banking regulators, to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. In addition to the requirements of the IMCR and the Supervisory Agreements, regulators have placed increasing emphasis on the amount of common equity as a component of core bank capital, and proposed capital regulations incorporating specific levels of common equity capital. Proposed regulations would also require regulatory capital to meet required levels on a consolidated basis. Additional capital would also potentially permit the Company to return to a strategy of growing Bank assets. Depending on circumstances, if we were to raise capital, we may deploy it to the Bank for general banking purposes, or may retain some or all of such capital at the holding company level. If the Company were to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, it could dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and, given our current common stock trading price, would be expected to dilute the per share book value of our common stock, could dilute the Company’s earnings per share, and could result in a change in control of the Company and the Bank. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current stockholders which may adversely impact our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, if deemed prudent or required, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. It may also depend potentially on our ability to increase our authorized common stock and make other changes to our Certificate of Incorporation requiring stockholder approval that may be needed to accommodate a significant investment by a person or group. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, at all, on favorable economic terms, or other terms acceptable to us. There can be no assurance that these or other actions we may take will be sufficient and timely in order to address our consolidated and Bank capital requirements, as needed, and maintain compliance with the Supervisory Agreements, the IMCR or any capital plan submitted by us. If we cannot satisfactorily address our capital needs as they arise, our ability to maintain or expand our operations, to limit or reverse accumulation of unpaid preferred stock dividends and to operate without additional regulatory sanctions or other restrictions, and our operating results, could be materially adversely affected. The Bank may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and its cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures; the Company on an unconsolidated basis has limited capital resources and liquidity and currently is unable to satisfy its preferred stock dividend obligations, which increase in 2014, or to assist the Bank with its liquidity and capital requirements. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to pay expenses, make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered through its network of twelve banking offices. Wholesale funding sources principally consist of borrowing lines from the FHLB of Des Moines and the FRB and brokered and internet certificates of deposit obtained from the national market. Pursuant to a regulatory directive, the Bank may not renew existing brokered deposits or accept new brokered deposits without the consent of the OCC. Borrowings from the FHLB are subject to the FHLB’s credit policies and procedures relating to the valuation of the loans securing advances as well as the amount of funds the FHLB will loan to the Bank. The current collateral pledged to secure advances may no longer be acceptable, the formulas for determining the 35 Table of Contents excess pledged collateral may change or the Bank’s credit rating with the FHLB could decrease. In these cases, the Bank may not have sufficient collateral to pledge or have the borrowing capacity to meet its funding needs and may be required to rely upon alternate funding sources, such as the Federal Reserve Bank, which bear higher borrowing costs. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios also provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. The Bank actively manages its liquidity position and monitors it using cash flow forecasts. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability or access to borrowed funds and the brokered deposit market, subject to OCC approval, and the internet deposit market could potentially have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s primary source of cash is dividends from the Bank and, pursuant to the Bank’s Supervisory Agreement, the Bank is restricted from paying dividends to the Company without obtaining prior consent of the OCC. At December 31, 2012, the Company had $1.0 million in cash and other assets that could readily be turned into cash. Primarily, the Company requires cash for the payment of expenses and dividends on the Company’s outstanding preferred stock. On February 15, 2011, the Company suspended payment of dividends on its preferred stock in order to preserve cash and liquidity at the Company, and has failed to pay each of the required nine dividend payments to and including February 15, 2013. The amount of accrued but unpaid compounded dividends totaled $3.1 million at February 15, 2013. The stated rate on these dividends will increase from 5% per annum to 9% per annum beginning February 15, 2014. The Company does not anticipate that it will have adequate liquid resources to make future preferred stock dividend payments in 2013, or, absent an external capital raising event, cash resources which would assist the Bank in meeting any liquidity or capital requirements. Failure to obtain OCC approval for any future dividends from the Bank to the Company could cause the Company to require other sources of liquidity for the payment of expenses and other needs beyond 2013. Further information about the Company’s liquidity position is available on page 24 in the “Management Discussion & Analysis – Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses or appropriately reflect at any given time the inherent risk of loss in our loan portfolio. Our non-performing assets remained elevated from historical levels at $ 40.6 million, or 6.2% of total assets at December 31, 2012 and $50.6 million, or 6.4% of total assets at December 31, 2011. Classified loans also remained at elevated levels at December 31, 2012 at $115.6 million, or 24.3% of total loans, compared to $107.5 million, or 18.5% of total loans at December 31, 2011. Classified loans represent special mention, performing substandard and nonperforming loans. The elevated level of non-performing and classified loans was primarily due to the weak economic recovery and the continued difficulties in the real estate markets we primarily serve. We also experienced a significant increase in charge offs in 2011. The increase in charge offs was due to a change in the fourth quarter of 2011 in our charge off policy on non-performing loans, which required the charge off of previously established specific valuation allowances (SVAs), and to instances of deterioration in borrowers’ financial condition that warranted a charge off of the loan balance. If the economic recovery and/or the real estate markets continue to remain weak, these assets may not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. If this occurs, we may experience losses or an increased risk of loss in our loan portfolio, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses or the inherent risk of loss in our loan portfolio, and future provision for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the appropriateness of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, changes in the size of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information 36 Table of Contents about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. We also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, valuation reserves already established, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses and estimates of risk of loss inherent in our loan portfolio have varied and are likely to continue to vary from our current estimates. Such variances may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company has concentrations in commercial business and commercial real estate loans, increasing the risk in its loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of its loan portfolio, the Company expanded its commercial business and commercial real estate lending for a number of years prior to 2008 and these categories of loans represented over 50% of the total loans receivable in each of the past five years. Much of the increase in the Company’s commercial real estate portfolio over this period was in land development loans, while many of the Company’s commercial business loans were made to borrowers associated with the real estate industry. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans generally, and land development loans in particular, present a higher level of risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residences. This greater risk is due to several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced (for example, if leases are not obtained or renewed or properties intended for resale are not developed and sold), the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the underlying collateral may be impaired. Commercial business loans to businesses that are dependent on the cash flow generated by the sale or leasing of real estate are similarly impacted. The Company’s commercial business and commercial real estate loan portfolios have experienced difficulties in recent years, which has adversely affected the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2012, the Company classified $30.0 million of loans as non-performing, of which $22.8 million related to commercial business and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2012, total classified loans included $98.8 million of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. The level of non-performing and other classified loans increased our loan loss provision and had a negative impact on our earnings. The Company may experience actual losses in respect of these classified loans and further increases in the level of classified loans in our loan portfolio that may require further increases in our provision for loan losses. Declines in home values have decreased our loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults, including in our commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Declines in home values in our markets have adversely impacted and may continue to impact our results from operations. Like all financial institutions, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular, the significant decline in home values. More stringent lending standards implemented by the mortgage industry and the Company has made it more difficult for borrowers with marginal credit to qualify for a mortgage. This, along with overall weakness in the economy, has reduced the demand for single family homes and their corresponding value and has resulted in a decrease in new home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios. The decline in the value of single family homes has also significantly impacted the delinquencies and defaults of our 37 Table of Contents commercial real estate loans due to the decrease in estimated value of the underlying collateral and the inability of such commercial borrowers to generate cash flows from the related real estate development, which is often contingent upon the sale of such property. In the current environment, sales of these properties has been, and is anticipated to continue to be difficult. Commercial business loans to businesses that are dependent on the cash flow generated by the sale or renting of residential real estate are similarly impacted. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, results from operations. Like all financial institutions, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular a significant decline in home values and reduced commercial development in the Company’s markets has had a negative effect on results of operations. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which the Company conducts business, and in the southern Minnesota and northern Iowa areas in general. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southern Minnesota counties of Fillmore, Freeborn, Houston, Mower, Olmsted and Winona and portions of Steele, Dodge, Goodhue and Wabasha counties, as well as Marshall county in Iowa. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control can affect and has affected these local economic conditions and adversely affected the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a significant amount of commercial business and commercial real estate loans and decreases in tenant occupancy and development home sales have had a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans and the value of the collateral held as security for these loans, which has adversely impacted the Company’s earnings. Because of the asset size of the Company, adverse performance affecting a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in earnings. Due to the Company’s asset size, the provision for loan losses or charge offs associated with individual loans can be large relative to the Company’s earnings for a particular period. If one or a few relatively large loans become non-performing in a period and the Company is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results for that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a small number of loans may be disproportionately larger than the impact of such loans on the quality of the Company’s overall loan portfolio. In 2009, our internal loan limits were lowered to $4.5 million per borrower. However, existing borrowers with relationships over that limit were “grandfathered” in and it will take time to reduce the size of all existing relationships below the new limit. The Bank’s largest borrowing relationship had outstanding loans totaling $23.1 million and was performing at December 31, 2012. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including recent changes under federal law. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal bank regulatory agencies. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system and the financial system as a whole, and not holders of our common stock. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. See Item 1 “Business – Regulation and Supervision” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 incorporated by reference herein for information regarding regulation affecting the Bank and the Company. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) is changing the bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies, including the Bank and the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act transferred the regulatory powers of the former OTS to other agencies as of July 21, 2011 (the “Transfer Date”). The OCC became the primary federal regulator for the Bank and the FRB became the primary federal regulator for the Company and its nondepository subsidiaries, and rulemaking with respect to consumer 38 Table of Contents financial protection functions was transferred to the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that all orders, resolutions, determinations, agreements, and regulations, interpretive rules, other interpretations, guidelines, and other advisory materials issued, made, prescribed, or allowed to become effective by the OTS on or before the Transfer Date with respect to savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository subsidiaries, and with respect to savings associations, remain in effect and are enforceable until modified, terminated, set aside, or superseded in accordance with applicable law by the FRB or the OCC, as applicable, by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law. Accordingly, the Supervisory Agreement entered into by the Company with the OTS is enforced by the FRB and the Supervisory Agreement entered into by the Bank with the OTS is enforced by the OCC. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies, including the FRB, the OCC and the CFPB, to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations. The federal agencies were given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations. In addition, many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act are being implemented over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations remains unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may significantly impact the profitability of business activities, require material changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In implementing its new authority over savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository subsidiaries, in 2011, the FRB promulgated a new Regulation LL that largely duplicated provisions of former OTS regulations. While many of the changes were non-substantive, Regulation LL replaces the OTS rules and guidance addressing when a party is deemed to “control” or not “control” a savings association with somewhat more restrictive FRB rules that apply to bank holding companies. The most likely impact of this change will be for investors interested in making passive investments in savings and loan holding companies. Such investors may be subject to additional requirements that were previously not applicable to savings associations or their holding companies. Regulation LL also states that a savings and loan holding company such as the Company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary savings associations and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe and unsound manner. Although these concepts are consistent with former OTS policy, the Dodd-Frank Act placed the requirement in statute. Regulation LL reflects this requirement. The extent and timing of any substantive changes may have an impact on the Company’s capital requirements and liquidity but the effects remain difficult to predict at this time. The FRB has announced that it will assess the condition, performance and activities of savings and loan holding companies in a manner that is consistent with its established risk-based approach regarding bank holding company supervision to ensure that savings and loan holding companies are effectively supervised and can serve as a source of strength for, and do not threaten the soundness of, subsidiary depository institutions. In addition, the capital requirements of the Company and the Bank may be affected in the future by regulatory changes proposed in June 2012 by federal regulatory agencies including the FRB and the OCC to establish an integrated regulatory capital framework for implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposals would, among other things, apply a strengthened set of capital requirements to both the Bank and the Company and revise the rules for calculating risk-weighted assets for purposes of such requirements. The agencies have received comments on the proposed rules but have not issued final rules, so the details and the timetable for implementation of these rules remain uncertain. The CFPB, through rule-making, enforcement and other activities, has the potential to reshape consumer-related laws affecting the Bank. The CFPB’s rule-making activities include, among other things, the issuance in January 2013 of final rules implementing Dodd-Frank Act mortgage lending requirements, including the “ability-to-repay” requirement for mortgage lending together with certain safe harbors and rebuttable presumptions of compliance associated with “qualified mortgages.” Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such 39 Table of Contents changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure, or alleged failure, to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil or criminal penalties or money damages in connection with actions or proceedings on behalf of regulators or consumers, and/or reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations and to reduce the likelihood of such actions or proceedings, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur or that such actions or proceedings will not be brought. Changes to laws and regulations, including changes in interpretation or implementation, may also limit the Bank’s flexibility on financial products and fees which could result in additional operational costs and a reduction in our non-interest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Examples include limits on payment of dividends by banks and regulations governing compensation. Regulation of dividends would limit the liquidity of the Company and limits on compensation may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. See the other risk factors included herein and incorporated by reference for a discussion of risks related to the Company’s and the Bank’s Supervisory Agreements to which we have become subject, for a discussion regarding the Bank IMCR, and for a discussion of other restrictions to which the Company and the Bank have become subject. We have a recent history of losses and earning asset contraction, our continued high level of classified and nonperforming assets, accruing and unpaid preferred stock dividends and regulatory restrictions make the sustainability of our return to profitability and ability to grow uncertain. We had net income in the year ended December 31, 2012, but have experienced net losses in each of the previous four calendar years during the four-year period ended December 31, 2011. These losses have been primarily due to loan losses in our commercial loan portfolios. We continue to have relatively high levels of nonperforming and other classified assets that pose a risk to our interest income, capital and liquidity. Unpaid and accruing dividends on our outstanding preferred stock have significantly reduced the net income (loss), available to common stockholders since February 2011. In addition, in order to improve our capital ratios, we have significantly contracted the size of the Bank through reductions in assets, primarily loans, and in liabilities, primarily brokered deposits and advances. Total assets have decreased $383 million and brokered deposits and advances decreased $194 million in the three year period ended December 31, 2012. These reductions in assets and liabilities have correspondingly reduced the base of earning assets from which we realize our primary source of income, net interest income. Further, pursuant to the Bank’s Supervisory Agreement, the Bank is prohibited from increasing its total assets during any quarter in excess of an amount equal to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the previous quarter without the prior consent of the OCC. Other regulatory actions, including the Supervisory Agreements, restrict, among other things, Company and Bank dividends and compensation. Our failure fully to comply with the Supervisory Agreements and the IMCR may result in the imposition of additional restrictions. These factors may make it more difficult for us to sustain profitable operations and earnings growth that inure to the benefit of our common stockholders. Holders of the series A preferred stock have certain limited voting rights, including the right to elect two directors due to our failure to pay preferred stock dividends at the stated rate; and while we are in arrears on preferred stock dividends, we are restricted in our ability to pay any dividend or make any distribution on or repurchase of our common stock. Generally, the holders of the series A preferred stock have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the series A preferred stock and certain other matters, including the right to elect two directors as described below, and except as may be required by applicable law. In February 2011, the Company suspended payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on its series A preferred stock following discussions with the OTS in order to preserve cash for potential future needs. Further, pursuant to the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, the Company may not declare or pay any cash dividends, 40 Table of Contents including those on the series A preferred stock, without the consent of the OCC. The Company intends to re-evaluate the deferral of these dividend payments periodically in consultation with the OCC, taking into account the Company’s financial condition, applicable legal restrictions and other relevant factors. Under the terms of the series A preferred stock, the Company is required to pay dividends on a quarterly basis compounding at a per annum rate of 5% for the first five years, after which the dividend rate automatically increases to 9%. As of February 15, 2013, the dividends on the series A preferred stock have not been paid for nine quarterly periods and accumulated and unpaid compounded dividends aggregated $3.1 million. Due to this failure to pay preferred stock dividends, under the certificate of designations relating to the preferred stock, the total number of positions on the Company’s board of directors automatically has been increased by two, and the holders of the series A preferred stock have the right, at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions; provided, that no person may be elected as a series A preferred stock director who would cause the Company to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which its securities may then be listed or traded. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. We have been advised by the FRB that the investors that hold substantially all of the series A preferred stock have, as a condition to their investment in the series A preferred stock, entered into passivity commitments with the FRB pursuant to which they have, among other things, waived, unless they obtain prior FRB consent, the right to elect representatives to our board of directors. We are not a party to this agreement, and the FRB may waive any such restriction in its discretion, without consultation with the Company. In any such event, the holders of the series A preferred stock would, unless we have fully satisfied all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, have the right to elect up to two representatives to our board of directors. Further, the Company cannot declare or pay a dividend or make any distribution on our common stock, so long as any shares of our series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full on our series A preferred stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. In addition, while we are in arrears in the payment of preferred stock dividends we may not redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other capital stock ranking junior to the preferred stock, other than for limited exceptions. These restrictions limit our ability to manage our capital resources generally and, specifically, to return capital to our common stockholders, and may adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Our compensation expense may increase materially following Treasury’s sale of the series A preferred stock. As a result of our participation in the CPP, among other things, during the period Treasury owned the series A preferred stock, we were subject to Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance. As a result of Treasury’s sale of the series A preferred stock, these executive compensation and corporate governance standards are no longer applicable. As a result of this change and subject to other factors, including earnings and cash flow and the application of other regulatory restrictions under our Supervisory Agreements, our compensation expense for our executive officers and other senior employees may increase materially. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The earnings of the Company are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, government borrowing and other factors beyond management’s control may also affect interest rates. If the Company’s interest-earning assets mature, reprice or prepay more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, a decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice, or, in the case of deposits, are withdrawn by the accountholder, more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period, an increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Given the Company’s mix of assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2012, a falling interest rate environment would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The effect on our deposits of decreases in interest rates generally lags the effect on our assets. The lagging effect of deposit rate changes is primarily due to the Bank’s deposits that are in the form of certificates of deposit, which do not re-price immediately when the federal funds rate changes. 41 Table of Contents Fixed rate loans increase the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable rate loans decrease the risks to a lender associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks. As interest rates rise, the payment by the borrower rises to the extent permitted by the terms of the loan, and the increased payment increases the potential for default. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there is likely to be an increase in prepayment activity on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates. Under these circumstances, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, investments and other interest-rate sensitive assets including mortgage servicing rights, and the Company’s ability to realize gains on the sale or resolution of assets. This type of income can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on a number of different factors, including the interest rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and increased loan loss reserve requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds could negatively impact the value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights. The capitalization, amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights are subject to significant estimates. These estimates are based upon loan types, note rates and prepayment speed assumptions. Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds may have a material effect on the net carrying value of mortgage servicing rights. In a declining interest rate environment, prepayment speed assumptions will increase and result in an acceleration in the amortization of the mortgage servicing rights as the assumed underlying portfolio declines and also may result in impairment as the value of the mortgage servicing rights declines. The extended disruption or compromise of vital infrastructure, including the Company’s technology systems, could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business depends on its ability to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. The Company’s technological and physical infrastructures, which include its financial, accounting and other data processing systems, are vital to its operation. Extended disruption or compromise of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of the Company’s control, could cause the Company to suffer regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial losses, any of which, could have a material adverse effect either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Strong competition within the Company’s market area may limit profitability or increase losses. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of the Company’s competition for deposits and loans; however, the Company also competes with financial institutions that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, the Company faces additional and significant competition for funds from money market and mutual funds, and securities firms located in the same communities and those that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over the Company. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This competitive strategy places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. Our reputation and its attributes are key assets of our business. Our recent operating performance, elevated level of non-performing assets and enhanced regulatory scrutiny and associated adverse publicity could 42 Table of Contents adversely affect the perception of our customers and prospective customers in our markets, our employees, investors and other stakeholders. Loss of large checking and money market deposit customers could increase cost of funds and have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company has a number of large deposit customers that maintain balances in checking and money market accounts at the Bank. At December 31, 2012, there were $28 million in checking and money market accounts of customers that have relationship balances greater than $5 million. The ability to attract and retain these types of deposits has a positive effect on the Company’s net interest margin as they provide a relatively low cost of funds to the Company compared to certificates of deposits or advances. If these depositors were to withdraw these funds and the Bank was not able to replace them with similar types of deposits, the Banks cost of funds would increase and the Company’s results of operation would be negatively impacted. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. The USA Patriot Act and Bank Secrecy Act may subject us to large fines for non-compliance. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If these activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although the Company has developed policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, regulators may take enforcement action against the Company in the event of noncompliance. Risks related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the closing price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $1.61 to $3.80 per share, and over the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012 it has ranged from $1.50 to $3.22. Our closing sale price on December 31, 2012 was $3.47 per share and on February 27, 2013 was $5.37 per share. Our stock generally trades in low volumes and its price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including, but not limited to, variations in operating results, litigation or governmental and regulatory proceedings, market perceptions of our financial reporting, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. We may issue additional stock, or reissue shares of treasury stock, without shareholder consent. We have authorized 11,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 4,423,589 shares were issued and outstanding, 4,705,073 shares were held as treasury stock, and 1,871,338 shares were unissued, as of December 31, 2012. We also had 833,333 shares reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding warrants and 121,965 shares reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans. In addition, we have submitted to our stockholders for consideration at our annual meeting to be held April 23, 2013 a proposal to increase the authorized common 43 Table of Contents stock we may issue by 5 million shares, to a total of 16 million shares. The board of directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares and to reissue all of the treasury shares. Additional shares may be issued, or treasury shares reissued, in connection with future financing, acquisitions, employee stock plans, or otherwise. Any such issuance, or reissuance, will dilute the percentage ownership of existing stockholders. We are also currently authorized to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2012, there were 26,000 shares issued and outstanding of our series A preferred stock. These shares have a preference in payment of dividends and proceeds of any liquidation relative to our common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors can issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and fix the terms of such stock without shareholder approval. Preferred stock may include the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and reduce the value of the common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Future sale of shares of our common stock in the public market upon exercise of the outstanding warrant could depress our stock price. Shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant issued to Treasury in connection with its purchase of the series A preferred stock represented beneficial ownership of approximately 16% of our common stock as of December 31, 2012. We are obligated to register the resale of the warrant and underlying common stock under the Securities Act of 1933 and these securities may also be eligible for sale publicly under rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 in certain circumstances. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, whether under the foregoing registration statement or otherwise, or the perception that those sales could occur may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock is significantly restricted; we have not paid a dividend on our common stock since 2008 and our current financial condition and results of operations and accrued and unpaid preferred dividends make payment of any such dividend unlikely in the foreseeable future. We are a stock savings bank holding company and our operations are conducted primarily by our banking subsidiary, Home Federal Savings Bank. Since we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our banking subsidiary, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock depends on our receipt of dividends from our banking subsidiary. Dividend payments from our banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net income and retained earnings. The ability of our banking subsidiary to pay dividends to us is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. The Bank is not currently permitted to pay dividends to the Company under applicable limitations, and the further restrictions described below. There is no assurance that our banking subsidiary will be able to pay dividends to us in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. The inability to receive dividends from our banking subsidiary could have an adverse affect on our business and financial condition. On October 20, 2008, we announced that our board of directors had decided to suspend the payment of quarterly cash dividends on shares of Company common stock. Since that time, the Company and the Bank have entered into the Supervisory Agreements which prohibit the declaration or payment of any cash dividend or repurchase or redemption of any equity stock of these entities without advance notice to the applicable banking regulator and receipt of written non-objection therefrom. In addition, so long as any shares of our series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full on our series A preferred stock, we may not pay or declare any dividend on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. Holders of shares of series A preferred stock are entitled to receive cumulative compounding cash dividends at a stated rate per annum of 5% per share on a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of series A preferred stock with respect to each dividend period from December 23, 2008 to, but excluding, February 15, 2014. From and after February 15, 2014, holders of shares of series A preferred stock are entitled to receive cumulative compounding cash dividends at a stated rate per annum of 9% per share on a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of series A preferred stock. Beginning with the 44 Table of Contents dividend payment due February 15, 2011, the Company has failed to make any required series A preferred stock dividend payment. As of February 15, 2013, the aggregate accrued and unpaid series A preferred dividends (including applicable compounding) totaled $3.1 million. No dividend is anticipated to be paid on the series A preferred stock in 2013. Any such series A preferred dividend which is accrued and unpaid is senior in right of payment to any common stock dividend and must be satisfied in full before any common stock dividend or distribution may be made. These factors make payment of any common stock dividend or distribution unlikely in the foreseeable future. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware and federal law, may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of control of us, even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our stockholders. Provisions included in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and federal law, may discourage, delay or prevent potential acquisitions of control of us, particularly when attempted in a transaction that is not negotiated directly with, and approved by, our board of directors, despite perceived short-term benefits to our stockholders, such as an increase in the trading price of our common stock. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: • limit the voting power of shares held by a stockholder beneficially owning in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock; • require that, with limited exceptions, business combinations between us and a stockholder beneficially owning in excess of 10% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, be approved by at least 80% of the total number of our outstanding voting shares; • require that prior to acquiring shares from a stockholder that owns 5% or more of our publicly traded voting stock, with limited exception, holders of 80% or more of our voting stock outstanding, other than shares held by the selling stockholder, must approve the transaction; • divide our board of directors, other than directors who may be elected by a class or series of preferred stock, into three classes serving staggered three-year terms and provide that a director may only be removed prior to the expiration of a term for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote in an election of directors; • require that a special meeting of stockholders be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of our board of directors; • require advance notice of nominations of directors to be made, or business to be brought, by stockholders at our annual meetings; • authorize the issuance of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors; and • require that amendments to (i) our certificate of incorporation be approved by a two-thirds vote of our board of directors and by a majority of the outstanding shares of our voting stock or, with respect to the amendment of certain provisions (regarding, among other things, provisions relating to number, classification, election and removal of directors, amendment of the bylaws, call of special stockholder meetings, acquisitions of control, director liability, and certain business combinations), by 80% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock, and (ii) our bylaws be approved by a majority vote of our board of directors or the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the total votes eligible to be voted at a duly constituted meeting of stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested 45 Table of Contents stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. For purposes of Section 203, “voting stock” means stock of any class or series entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. Furthermore, federal law requires OCC approval prior to any direct or indirect acquisition of control (as defined in regulations) of our banking subsidiary, including any acquisition of control of us. Our outstanding preferred stock has a liquidation preference over our common stock. Shares of our common stock represent equity interests in us and do not constitute indebtedness. Accordingly, the shares of our common stock rank junior to all of its indebtedness, our series A preferred stock, and to other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy such claims. In the event that we voluntarily or involuntarily liquidate, dissolve or wind up our affairs, holders of our series A preferred stock would be entitled to receive an amount per share, referred to as the total liquidation amount, equal to the fixed liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, whether or not declared, to the date of payment. Holders of the series A preferred stock would be entitled to receive the total liquidation amount out of our assets that are available for distribution to stockholders, after payment or provision for payment of our debts and other liabilities but before any distribution of assets is made to holders of our common stock. An “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may materially impair our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income will be limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in our ownership by “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change net operating losses equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate. In the event an “ownership change” was to occur, we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and lose certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. The amount of the permanent loss would depend on the size of the annual limitation (which is a function of our market capitalization at the time of an “ownership change” and the then prevailing long-term tax exempt rate) and the remaining carry forward period (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 