ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The earnings of the Company are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, government borrowing and other factors beyond management’s control may also affect interest rates. If the Company’s interest-earning assets mature, reprice or prepay more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, a decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice, or, in the case of deposits, are withdrawn by the accountholder, more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period, an increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Given the Company’s current mix of assets and liabilities, a declining interest rate environment would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Fixed rate loans increase the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable rate loans decrease the risks to a lender associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks. As interest rates rise, the payment by the borrower rises to the extent permitted by the terms of the loan, and the increased payment increases the potential for default. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there is likely to be an increase in prepayment activity on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates. Under these circumstances, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, investments and other interest-rate sensitive assets including mortgage servicing rights, and the Company’s ability to realize gains on the sale or resolution of assets. This type of income can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on a number of different factors, including the interest rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and increased loan loss reserve requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company has increased its commercial real estate loan originations, increasing the risk in its loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of its loan portfolio, the Company has expanded its commercial real estate lending during recent years. Commercial real estate lending has increased as a percentage of the Company’s total loan portfolio from 23.9% at December 31, 2002 to 37.5% at December 31, 2006. Much of the increase in the Company’s commercial real estate portfolio over this period has been in land development loans. Commercial real estate loans generally, and especially land development loans, present a higher level of risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residences. This greater risk is due to several factors, including the 29 Table of Contents concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced (for example, if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In 2006, the Company charged off $7.4 million in commercial loans relating to a real estate and golf course development. If the Company’s commercial real estate loan portfolio fails to perform, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds could negatively impact the value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights. The capitalization, amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights are subject to significant estimates. These estimates are based upon loan types, note rates and prepayment speed assumptions. Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds may have a material effect on the net carrying value of mortgage servicing rights. In a declining interest rate environment, prepayment speed assumptions will increase and result in an acceleration in the amortization of the mortgage servicing rights as the assumed underlying portfolio declines and also may result in impairment as the value of the mortgage servicing rights declines. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets could adversely impact results from operations. Like all banks, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular a significant decline in home values or reduced commercial development in the Company’s markets could have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which the Company conducts business, and in the southern Minnesota and northern Iowa area in general. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southern Minnesota counties of Fillmore, Freeborn, Houston, Mower, Olmsted and Winona and portions of Steele, Dodge, Goodhue and Wabasha counties, as well as Marshall and Tama counties in Iowa. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because the Company has a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. A significant decline in home values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in these portfolios. New or revised tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources of potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulations, are described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Regulation and Supervision.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a 30 Table of Contents material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. In January 2007, the Company received notification that the Minnesota Department of Revenue was proposing adjustments of $2.2 million to the Company’s 2002 through 2004 Minnesota state tax liability. The proposed adjustments relate to the tax treatment of the inter-company dividends paid to the Bank by Home Federal Holding. The Company intends to challenge the proposed adjustments. A tax exposure reserve has been established based on a range of probable outcomes, however, the final liability may exceed the amount of the reserve. If the final resolution of the proposed adjustment exceeds the tax exposure reserve established by the Company, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technological and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of the Company’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Strong competition within the Company’s market area may limit profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans, as described under the heading “Business — Competition.” Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of the Company’s competition for deposits; however, the Company also competes with financial institutions that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, the Company faces additional and significant competition for funds from money market and mutual funds, securities firms, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions located in the same communities and those that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over the Company. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. Loss of large checking and money market deposit customers could increase cost of funds and have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company has a number of large deposit customers that maintain balances in checking and money market accounts at the Bank. The ability to attract these types of deposits has a positive effect on the Company’s net interest margin as they provide a relatively low cost of funds to the Company compared to certificates of deposits or advances. If these depositors were to withdraw these funds and the Bank were not able to replace them with similar types of deposits, the Banks cost of funds would increase and the Company’s results of operation would be negatively impacted. This report, other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Company’s proxy statement may contain “forward-looking” statements that deal with future results, plans or 31 Table of Contents performance. In addition, the Company’s management may make such statements orally to the media, or to securities analysts, investors or others. Forward-looking statements deal with matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. Words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “would”, “could” and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. The Company’s future results may differ materially from historical performance and forward-looking statements about the Company’s expected financial results or other plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These include but are not limited to possible legislative changes and adverse economic, business and competitive developments such as shrinking interest margins; deposit outflows; reduced demand for financial services and loan products; changes in accounting policies and guidelines, or monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government; changes in credit and other risks posed by the Company’s loan and investment portfolios; changes in loan repayment and prepayment patterns; changes in loan terms and conditions; technological, computer-related or operational difficulties; adverse changes in securities markets; results of litigation or other significant uncertainties. Because of the limited size of the Company, losses on a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in earnings. Due to the Company’s limited size, individual loan values can be large relative to the Company’s earnings for a particular period. If one or a few relatively large loans become non-performing in a period and the Company is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results of that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a small number of loans may be disproportionately larger than the impact of such loans on the quality of the Company’s overall loan portfolio. In each of the third and fourth quarters of 2006, the Company incurred losses on individual loans or lending relationships that significantly impacted operating results for the relevant periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 