ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers 32 Table of Contents should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses or adequately reflect at any given time the inherent risk of loss in our loan portfolio. Our non-performing assets remained at an elevated level in 2010 at $84.5 million, or 9.59% of loans receivable at December 31, 2010 and $77.4 million, or 7.47% of total assets at December 31, 2009. The elevated level of non-performing loans was primarily due to the weakened economy and the continued difficulties in the real estate markets we primarily serve. If the economy and/or the real estate markets continue to remain weak, these assets may not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. If this occurs, we may experience losses or an increased risk of loss in our loan portfolio, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses or the inherent risk of loss in our loan portfolio, and future provision for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. We also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, specific valuation reserves already established, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses and estimates of risk of loss inherent in our loan portfolio may vary from our current estimates. Such variances may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company has concentrations in commercial business and commercial real estate loans, increasing the risk in its loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of its loan portfolio, the Company expanded its commercial business and commercial real estate lending during the past 10 years. Much of the increase in the Company’s commercial real estate portfolio over this period was in land development loans, while many of the Company’s commercial business loans were made to borrowers associated with the real estate industry. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans generally, and land development loans in particular, present a higher level of risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residences. This greater risk is due to several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced (for example, if leases are not obtained or renewed or properties intended for resale are not developed and sold), the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the underlying collateral may be impaired. 33 Table of Contents Commercial business loans to businesses that are dependant on the cash flow generated by the sale or leasing of real estate are similarly impacted. The Company’s commercial business and commercial real estate loan portfolios have experienced difficulties in recent years, which has adversely affected the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2010, the Company classified $68.1 million of loans as non-performing, of which $63.0 million related to commercial business and commercial real estate loans. The level of non-performing loans increased our loan loss provision and had a negative impact on our earnings. The Company may experience actual losses in respect of these non-performing loans and further increases in the level of non-performing loans in our loan portfolio that may require further increases in our provision for loan losses. Declines in home values have decreased our loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults, including in our commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Declines in home values in our markets have adversely impacted and may continue to impact our results from operations. Like all financial institutions, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular, the significant decline in home values. More stringent lending standards implemented by the mortgage industry has made it more difficult for borrowers with marginal credit to qualify for a mortgage. This, along with overall weakness in the economy, has reduced the demand for single family homes and their corresponding value and has resulted in a decrease in new home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios. The decline in the value of single family homes has also significantly impacted the delinquencies and defaults of our commercial real estate loans due to the decrease in estimated value of the underlying collateral and the inability of such commercial borrowers to generate cash flows from the related real estate development, which is often contingent upon the sale of such property. In the current environment, sales of these properties has been, and is anticipated to continue to be difficult. Commercial business loans to businesses that are dependant on the cash flow generated by the sale or renting of residential real estate are similarly impacted. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, results from operations. Like all financial institutions, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular a significant decline in home values and reduced commercial development in the Company’s markets has had a negative effect on results of operations. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which the Company conducts business, and in the southern Minnesota and northern Iowa areas in general. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southern Minnesota counties of Fillmore, Freeborn, Houston, Mower, Olmsted and Winona and portions of Steele, Dodge, Goodhue and Wabasha counties, as well as Marshall and Tama counties in Iowa. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control can affect and has affected these local economic conditions and adversely affected the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a significant amount of commercial business and commercial real estate loans and decreases in tenant occupancy and development home sales have had a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans and the value of the collateral held as security for these loans, which has adversely impacted the Company’s earnings. Because of the limited size of the Company, losses on a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in earnings. Due to the Company’s limited size, individual loan amounts can be large relative to the Company’s earnings for a particular period. If one or a few relatively large loans become non-performing in a period and the Company is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results for that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a small number of loans may be disproportionately larger than the 34 Table of Contents impact of such loans on the quality of the Company’s overall loan portfolio. In 2009, our internal loan limits were lowered to $4.5 million per borrower. However, existing borrowers with relationships over that limit were “grandfathered” in and it will take time to reduce the size of all existing relationships below the new limit. The Bank’s largest borrowing relationship had outstanding loans totaling $24.4 million at December 31, 2010. The Company may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and its cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered through its network of fourteen banking offices. Wholesale funding sources principally consist of borrowing lines from the FHLB of Des Moines and the Federal Reserve Bank and brokered and internet certificates of deposit obtained from the national market. Pursuant to an OTS directive, the Bank may not renew existing brokered deposits or accept new brokered deposits without the consent of the OTS. Borrowings from the FHLB are subject to the FHLB’s credit policies and procedures relating to the valuation of the loans securing advances as well as the amount of funds the FHLB will loan to the Bank. The current collateral pledged to secure advances may no longer be acceptable, the formulas for determining the excess pledged collateral may change or the Bank’s credit rating with the FHLB could decrease. In these cases, the Bank may not have sufficient collateral to pledge or borrowing capacity to meet its funding needs and may be required to rely upon alternate funding sources, such as the Federal Reserve Bank, which bear higher borrowing costs. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios also provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. The Bank actively manages its liquidity position and monitors it using cash flow forecasts. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability or access to borrowed funds and the brokered deposit market, subject to OTS approval, and the internet deposit market could potentially have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s primary source of cash is dividends from the Bank and, pursuant to the Bank’s Supervisory Agreement, the Bank is restricted from paying dividends to the Company without obtaining prior consent of the OTS. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $2.0 million in cash and other assets that could readily be turned into cash. Primarily, the Company requires cash for the payment of expenses and dividends on the Company’s series A preferred stock. On February 15, 2011, the Company suspended payment of dividends on its series A preferred stock in order to preserve cash and liquidity at the Company, which is expected to continue through 2011. Failure to obtain OTS approval for any future dividends from the Bank to the Company could cause the Company to require other sources of liquidity for the payment of deferred preferred dividends, expenses and other needs beyond 2011. Further information about the Company’s liquidity position is available on page 20 in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the Annual Report to Security Holders for the year ended December 31, 2010. 35 Table of Contents We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Based on operating performance, regulatory requirements or other capital demands, we may at some point need to raise additional capital. Under the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, the Company must submit a capital plan by May 31, 2011 for approval by the OTS. The capital plan must include a proposed minimum tangible equity capital ratio commensurate with the Company’s consolidated risk profile and projections demonstrating the Company’s ability to attain and maintain such ratio. The Bank has been informed by the OTS that it intends to impose an individual minimum capital requirement (IMCR). An IMCR typically requires a bank to establish and maintain levels of capital greater than those generally required for a bank to be classified as “well-capitalized.” The Bank has not been informed by the OTS of the timing or capital levels that may be required. We are in the process of formulating the required capital plan for submission to the OTS. We cannot predict at this time what steps may be necessary in order to address our consolidated and Bank capital requirements. To date, we have reduced the asset size of the Bank in order to enhance its capital position. If we find it necessary to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current stockholders which may adversely impact our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on favorable economic terms, or other terms acceptable to us. We may also find it necessary to consider and evaluate other alternatives to meet applicable capital requirements, including sales of assets or other forms of recapitalization. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or otherwise satisfactorily address our capital needs as they arise, our ability to maintain or expand our operations, our ability to meet any Company capital plan or Bank IMCR, operate without additional regulatory or other restrictions, and our operating results, could be materially adversely affected. The Company and the Bank are subject to the restrictions and conditions of the Supervisory Agreements with the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreements could result in enforcement actions against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. The Company and the Bank each entered into Supervisory Agreements with the OTS effective February 22, 2011. The Supervisory Agreements supersede the memoranda of understanding between the Company and the Bank and the OTS dated December 9, 2009. In accordance with the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, we must submit a two year capital plan by May 31, 2011 to the OTS upon which the OTS may make comments, and to which the OTS may require revisions. We must operate within the parameters of the final capital plan and are required to monitor and submit periodic reports on our compliance with the plan. Also under the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, without the consent of the OTS, we may not incur or issue any debt, guarantee the debt of any entity, declare or pay any cash dividends or repurchase any of our capital stock, enter into any new contractual arrangement or renew or extend any existing arrangement relating to compensation or benefits with any director or executive officer, or make any golden parachute payments. The Bank’s Supervisory Agreement with the OTS primarily relates to the Bank’s financial performance and credit quality issues. In accordance with the Bank’s Supervisory Agreement, the Bank must submit a two year business plan and the OTS may make comments upon, and require revisions to, such plan. The Bank must operate within the parameters of the final business plan and is required to monitor and submit periodic reports on its compliance with the plan. The Bank must also submit a problem asset reduction plan that the OTS may make comments upon, and require revisions to. The Bank must operate within the parameters of the final problem asset plan and is required to monitor and submit periodic reports on its compliance with the plan. The Bank must also revise its loan modification policies and their programs for identifying, monitoring and controlling risk associated with concentrations of credit and improve its documentation of the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, 36 Table of Contents without the consent of the OTS, the Bank may not declare or pay any cash dividends, materially increase the total assets of the Bank, enter into any new contractual arrangement or renew or extend any existing arrangement related to compensation or benefits with any directors or officer, make any golden parachute payments, or enter into any significant contracts with a third party service provider. If the Company or the Bank fails to comply with the terms of their respective agreements, the OTS could take enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties or the issuance of a cease and desist order requiring corrective action. In addition, the OTS has indicated that it intends to impose individual minimum capital requirements (IMCR) on the Bank. An IMCR typically requires a bank to establish and maintain levels of capital greater than those generally required for a bank to be classified as well-capitalized. The Bank has not been informed by the OTS of the timing or capital levels that may be required. The proposed IMCR is not expected to affect the Bank’s status as well-capitalized within the meaning of OTS regulations. Federal banking supervision and new or revised tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources of potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulations, are described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Regulation and Supervision.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. In recent years, the Bank has reduced its asset size, primarily in the commercial loan area, in order to enhance its capital position and ratios. Further, pursuant to the Bank’s Supervisory Agreement, the Bank is prohibited from increasing its total assets during any quarter in excess of an amount equal to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the previous quarter without the prior consent of the OTS. This limitation on the Bank’s growth may have a significant impact on the Company’s and the Bank’s strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on the Company. For example, the new law provides that the OTS, which currently is the primary federal regulator for the Company and the Bank, will cease to exist one year from the date of the new law’s enactment. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is currently the primary federal regulator for national banks, will become the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including the Company. Also effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Company’s interest expense. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the 37 Table of Contents Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Our participation in the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) imposes restrictions on us affecting our capital stock and our compensation practices that may be adverse, and greater restriction is possible in the future. As a participant in the U.S. Treasury’s CPP program, we issued $26 million of series A preferred stock to the Treasury in December 2008. Among other limitations, we are subject to certain restrictions relating to distributions on or repurchase of our common stock. Prior to the earlier of December 23, 2011, or the date on which all of the series A preferred stock has been redeemed or Treasury has transferred all of the shares of series A preferred stock to third parties that are not affiliates of Treasury, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, declare or pay a dividend or make any distribution on our common stock, other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.25 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared on our common stock prior to October 14, 2008, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction; dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock; and dividends or distributions in connection with a stockholders’ rights plan or rights of a class or series of our stock that expressly provides that it ranks junior to the series A preferred stock as to dividends and liquidation. So long as any shares of our series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full on our series A preferred stock, we may not pay or declare any dividend on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. In addition, prior to the earlier of December 23, 2011, or the date on which all of the series A preferred stock has been redeemed or Treasury has transferred all of the shares of series A preferred stock to third parties that are not affiliates of Treasury, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other capital stock or other equity securities, or any trust preferred securities that we issued, other than for limited exceptions. These restrictions limit our ability to manage our capital resources generally and, specifically, to return capital to our common stockholders, and may adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In February 2011, the Company suspended payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on its series A preferred stock following discussions with the OTS in order to preserve cash for potential future needs. Further, pursuant to the Company’s Supervisory Agreement, the Company may not declare or pay any cash dividends, including those on the series A preferred stock, without the consent of the OTS. The Company intends to re-evaluate the deferral of these dividend payments periodically in consultation with the OTS, taking into account the Company’s financial condition, applicable legal restrictions and other relevant factors. Under the terms of the series A preferred stock, the Company is required to pay dividends on a quarterly basis at a rate of 5% for the first five years, after which the dividend rate automatically increases to 9%. Dividend payments on the series A preferred stock may be deferred without default, but the dividend is cumulative and, if the Company fails to pay dividends for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the Treasury will have the right to appoint two representatives to the Company’s board of directors. As a CPP participant, we are also subject to various executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions that limit our flexibility in determining appropriate compensation for our senior executive officers and other more highly compensated employees and may adversely affect the attraction and retention of management and other key employees. Among other things, the current restrictions (i) prohibit any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation to our five most highly compensated employees unless it is in the form of long-term restricted common stock that does not vest in the first two years after it is issued and that cannot be transferred except as permitted under a schedule that is based on our redemption of the preferred stock, (ii) prohibit payment of severance for any reason to our executive officers and any of the next five most highly compensated employees, (iii) require us to recover from our executive officers and the next 20 most highly compensated employees any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation when based on materially inaccurate earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, (iv) require us to permit a non-binding stockholder vote on executive pay, (v) required Treasury to conduct a review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation paid to our executive officers and the next 20 most highly compensated employees to determine whether such payments were 38 Table of Contents inconsistent with the amended law or TARP or were otherwise contrary to the public interest and to seek their recovery if not, (vi) prohibit incentive compensation to executive officers that encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of our company, and require our compensation committee to periodically review employee compensation plans in light of the risks posed to the Company and take steps to limit those risks. These restrictions apply to us so long as Treasury holds any of our securities (unless it holds only our warrants). Treasury is required to adopt regulations requiring each recipient of CPP funds to meet appropriate standards for executive compensation and corporate governance, including those listed above. The Supervisory Agreements entered into by the Company and the Bank also impose limitations on entry into, or amendment of, certain compensatory and employment arrangements with directors and executive officers. Please see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Supervision — Bank Regulation” of this Form 10-K for additional information. The securities purchase agreement with Treasury permits Treasury unilaterally to modify the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after its execution in applicable federal statutes. Whether by means of the foregoing, the exercise of general oversight powers or otherwise, additional, more restrictive legislative or regulatory changes are possible in the future with which we would be obligated to comply and which may affect adversely our operations, the ownership of our capital stock, our financial condition and results of operations, our management and other aspects of our business. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The earnings of the Company are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, government borrowing and other factors beyond management’s control may also affect interest rates. If the Company’s interest-earning assets mature, reprice or prepay more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, a decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice, or, in the case of deposits, are withdrawn by the accountholder, more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period, an increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Given the Company’s mix of assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2010, a falling interest rate environment would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The effect on our deposits of decreases in interest rates generally lags the effect on our assets. The lagging effect of deposit rate changes is primarily due to the Bank’s deposits that are in the form of certificates of deposit, which do not reprice immediately when the federal funds rate changes. Fixed rate loans increase the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable rate loans decrease the risks to a lender associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks. As interest rates rise, the payment by the borrower rises to the extent permitted by the terms of the loan, and the increased payment increases the potential for default. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there is likely to be an increase in prepayment activity on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates. Under these circumstances, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, investments and other interest-rate sensitive assets including mortgage servicing rights, and the Company’s ability to realize gains on the sale or resolution of assets. This type of income can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on a number of different factors, including the interest rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and increased loan loss reserve requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds could negatively impact the value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights. The capitalization, amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights are subject to significant estimates. These estimates are based upon loan types, note rates and prepayment speed assumptions. Changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds may have a material effect on the net carrying value of mortgage servicing rights. In a declining interest rate environment, prepayment speed assumptions will increase and result in an acceleration in the amortization of the mortgage servicing rights as the assumed underlying portfolio declines and also may result in impairment as the value of the mortgage servicing rights declines. The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technological and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of the Company’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Strong competition within the Company’s market area may limit profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans, as described under the heading “Business — Competition.” Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of the Company’s competition for deposits and loans; however, the Company also competes with financial institutions that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, the Company faces additional and significant competition for funds from money market and mutual funds, securities firms, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions located in the same communities and those that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the United States. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over the Company. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This competitive strategy places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. Our reputation and its attributes are key assets of our business. Our recent operating performance, elevated level of non-performing assets and enhanced regulatory scrutiny and associated adverse publicity could adversely affect the perception of our customers and prospective customers in our markets, our employees, investors and other stakeholders. Loss of large checking and money market deposit customers could increase cost of funds and have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company has a number of large deposit customers that maintain balances in checking and money market accounts at the Bank. At December 31, 2010 there were $66 million in checking and money market accounts of customers that have relationship balances greater than $5 million. The ability to attract and retain these types of deposits has a positive effect on the Company’s net interest margin as they provide a relatively low cost of funds to the Company compared to certificates of deposits or advances. If these depositors were to withdraw these funds and the Bank was not able to replace them with similar types of deposits, the Banks cost of funds would increase and the Company’s results of operation would be negatively impacted. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. 40 Table of Contents The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. The USA Patriot Act and Bank Secrecy Act may subject us to large fines for non-compliance. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If these activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although the Company has developed policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, regulators may take enforcement action against the Company in the event of noncompliance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family home loans and offer overdraft protection. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal bank regulatory agencies. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, and not holders of our common stock. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Congress and state legislatures continue to debate new laws related to mortgage lending and loan foreclosure. Bills placing limits on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by either Congress or the States of Minnesota and Iowa in the future. These laws may further restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four single-family loans. Changes to federal law and regulations may also limit the Bank’s flexibility on financial products and fees which could result in additional operational costs and a reduction in our non-interest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Examples include limits on payment of dividends by banks and regulations governing compensation. Regulation of dividends would limit the liquidity of the Company and limits on compensation may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. See page 36 for a discussion of risks related to the Company’s and the Bank’s Supervisory Agreements to which we have become subject and page 37 for risks relating to the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 