Item 1A Risk Factors I-18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments I-32 Item 2 Properties I-33 Item 3 Legal Proceedings I-37 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures I-37 Executive Officers of Southern Company I-38 Executive Officers of Alabama Power I-40 Executive Officers of Georgia Power I-41 Executive Officers of Mississippi Power I-43 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrants’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities II-1 Item 6 Selected Financial Data II-2 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations II-3 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk II-3 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data II-4 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure II-5 Item 9A Controls and Procedures II-6 Item 9B Other Information II-7 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance III-1 Item 11 Executive Compensation III-4 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters III-40 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence III-41 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services III-43 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules IV-1 Signatures IV-2 i Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements DEFINITIONS When used in Items 1 through 5 and Items 9A through 15, the following terms will have the meanings indicated. Term Meaning 2010 ARP Alternative Rate Plan approved by the Georgia PSC for Georgia Power for the years 2011 through 2013 Alabama Power Alabama Power Company Clean Air Act Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 Code Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended CPCN Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity Dalton Dalton Utilities DOE United States Department of Energy EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FMPA Florida Municipal Power Agency FP&L Florida Power & Light Company Georgia Power Georgia Power Company Gulf Power Gulf Power Company Hampton City of Hampton, Georgia IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers IGCC Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle IIC Intercompany Interchange Contract IPP Independent Power Producer IRP Integrated Resource Plan Kemper IGCC IGCC facility under construction in Kemper County, Mississippi KUA Kissimmee Utility Authority KW Kilowatt KWH Kilowatt-hour MEAG Power Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia Mississippi Power Mississippi Power Company MW Megawatt NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission OPC Oglethorpe Power Corporation OUC Orlando Utilities Commission Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 Two new nuclear generating units under construction at Plant Vogtle power pool The operating arrangement whereby the integrated generating resources of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are subject to joint commitment and dispatch in order to serve their combined load obligations PowerSouth PowerSouth Energy Cooperative (formerly, Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.) PPA Power Purchase Agreement ii Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements DEFINITIONS (continued) Term Meaning Progress Energy Florida Florida Power Corporation, d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc. PSC Public Service Commission registrants Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power RUS Rural Utilities Service (formerly Rural Electrification Administration) SCS Southern Company Services, Inc. (the system service company) SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SEGCO Southern Electric Generating Company SEPA Southeastern Power Administration SERC Southeastern Electric Reliability Council SMEPA South Mississippi Electric Power Association Southern Company The Southern Company Southern Company system Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, SEGCO, Southern Nuclear, SCS, SouthernLINC Wireless, and other subsidiaries Southern Holdings Southern Company Holdings, Inc. SouthernLINC Wireless Southern Communications Services, Inc. Southern Nuclear Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. Southern Power Southern Power Company SRE Southern Renewable Energy, Inc. traditional operating companies Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power iii Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the strategic goals for the wholesale business, retail sales, retail rates, customer growth, economic recovery, fuel and environmental cost recovery and other rate actions, current and proposed environmental regulations and related estimated expenditures, future earnings, dividend payout ratios, access to sources of capital, projections for the qualified pension plan, postretirement benefit plan, and nuclear decommissioning trust fund contributions, financing activities, start and completion of construction projects, plans and estimated costs for new generation resources, filings with state and federal regulatory authorities, impact of the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010, impact of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010, estimated sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements, storm damage cost recovery and repairs, and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include: • the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including regulation of water, coal combustion byproducts, and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, soot, particulate matter, hazardous air pollutants, including mercury, and other substances, financial reform legislation, and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; • current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries, including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC matters, and Internal Revenue Service and state tax audits; • the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Company’s subsidiaries operate; • variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general economy and recovery from the recent recession, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation measures; • available sources and costs of fuels; • effects of inflation; • ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of facilities; • investment performance of Southern Company’s employee benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust funds; • advances in technology; • state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and other cost recovery mechanisms; • regulatory approvals and actions related to the Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, including Georgia PSC approvals, NRC actions, and potential DOE loan guarantees; • regulatory approvals and actions related to the Kemper IGCC, including Mississippi PSC approvals, potential DOE loan guarantees, the SMEPA purchase decision, and utilization of investment tax credits; • the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; • internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; • potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; • the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due and to perform as required; • the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with wholesale customers; • the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company’s business resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents, including cyber intrusion; • interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Company’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings; • the impacts of any potential U.S. credit rating downgrade or other sovereign financial issues, including impacts on interest rates, access to capital markets, impacts on currency exchange rates, counterparty performance, and the economy in general, as well as potential impacts on the availability or benefits of proposed DOE loan guarantees; • the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; iv Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences; • the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company’s business resulting from incidents affecting the U.S. electric grid or operation of generating resources; • the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and • other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports filed by the registrants from time to time with the SEC. The registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. v Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the traditional operating companies is as follows: Alabama Power is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence since its incorporation in 1906. Georgia Power was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930 and was admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948. Gulf Power is a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005. Mississippi Power was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962. In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of Mississippi on January 30, 2001, in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007, in the State of South Carolina on March 31, 2009, in the State of Texas on October 26, 2009, and in the State of New Mexico on February 11, 2010. Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets these services to the public and also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Alabama Power’s and Georgia Power’s nuclear plants and is currently developing new nuclear generation at Plant Vogtle, which is co-owned by Georgia Power. SCS is the system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary primarily for Southern Company’s investments in leveraged leases. Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680 KWs at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO’s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts as SEGCO’s agent in the operation of SEGCO’s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power transmission line system. I-1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Southern Company’s segment information is included in Note 12 to the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein. The registrants’ Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company’s internet address is www.southerncompany.com. The Southern Company System Traditional Operating Companies The traditional operating companies own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies’ generating facilities. Each company’s transmission facilities are connected to the respective company’s own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants owned by Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia’s integrated transmission system, see “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power” herein. Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy transactions that may be entered into from time to time for reasons related to reliability or economics. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power Coordinating Group, and Tennessee Valley Authority and with Carolina Power & Light Company (d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc.), Duke Energy Corporation, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including some of those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric Reliability Council. The utility assets of the traditional operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern Power are operated as a single integrated electric system, or power pool, pursuant to the IIC. Activities under the IIC are administered by SCS, which acts as agent for the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. The fundamental purpose of the power pool is to provide for the coordinated operation of the electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible economies consistent with the highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service requirements and other operating limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through the application of centralized economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional operating company and Southern Power retains its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own customers and delivers any excess energy to the power pool for use in serving customers of other traditional operating companies or Southern Power or for sale by the power pool to third parties. The IIC provides for the recovery of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations thereunder, as well as the proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from power pool transactions with third parties. Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon request, the following services: general and design engineering, operations, purchasing, accounting, finance and treasury, tax, information technology, marketing, auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Southern Power and SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power, which are subject to FERC regulations, in compliance with such regulations. I-2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley and Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. In addition, Georgia Power has a contract with Southern Nuclear to develop, license, construct, and operate Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. See “Regulation – Nuclear Regulation” herein for additional information. Southern Power Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. Southern Power’s business activities are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional operating companies but are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by generally making such risks the responsibility of the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power’s future earnings will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets. For additional information on Southern Power’s business activities, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – “Business Activities” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein. Southern Power is constructing a 720 MW electric generating plant in Cleveland County, North Carolina. This new plant is expected to go into commercial operation in December 2012. The total estimated construction cost is expected to be between $335 million and $365 million. Southern Power is constructing a biomass generating plant in Sacul, Texas with an estimated capacity of 100 MWs. The generating plant will be fueled from wood waste and is expected to begin commercial operation in June 2012. The total estimated cost of the project is expected to be between $470 million and $490 million. On March 15, 2011, Southern Company transferred its ownership in its wholly-owned subsidiary, SRE, to Southern Power. SRE was formed in January 2010 to construct, acquire, own, and manage renewable generation assets and sell electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. In March 2010, SRE and Turner Renewable Energy, Inc., through a subsidiary, entered into an engineering, construction, and procurement agreement with First Solar, Inc. for Plant Cimarron, a 30 MW solar photovoltaic plant near Cimarron, New Mexico, and assumed the associated PPA. In November 2010, Plant Cimarron began commercial operation. The transfer of net assets was accounted for by Southern Power as a transfer of net assets among entities under common control; therefore, the assets and liabilities of SRE were transferred from Southern Company to Southern Power at historical cost. The consolidated financial statements of Southern Power have been revised to include the financial condition and the results of operations of SRE since its inception in January 2010. As of December 31, 2011, Southern Power had 7,908 MWs of nameplate capacity in commercial operation. Other Businesses Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary primarily for Southern Company’s investments in leveraged leases. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 127,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast under the name Southern Telecom. These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk. I-3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Construction Programs The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2012 through 2014, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” and Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each traditional operating company under “Construction Program” and Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Power under “Expansion Program” in Item 8 herein. The Southern Company system’s construction program consists of a base level capital investment and capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental statutes and regulations. In 2012, the base level capital investment and capital expenditures are expected to be apportioned approximately as follows: Southern Company system * Alabama Power Georgia Power Gulf Power Mississippi Power Southern Power (in millions) New Generation $2,325 $1 $861 $0 $1,335 $128 Environmental ** 425 22 237 200 87 — Transmission & Distribution Growth 550 160 337 40 13 — Maintenance (Generation, Transmission, and Distribution) 1,233 488 532 147 52 — Long-Term Service Agreements Capital 126 47 51 — — 28 Nuclear fuel 333 135 198 — — — General plant 275 84 87 15 9 31 Total $5,267 $937 $2,303 $402 $1,496 $187 * These amounts include the amounts for the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in the table above) as well as the amounts for the other subsidiaries. See “Other Businesses” herein for additional information. ** The 2012 base level capital investments for Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power include certain environmental compliance investments associated with the EPA’s Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) rule (formerly referred to as the Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology rule). The 2012 base level capital investment for Alabama Power does not include potential incremental environmental compliance investments associated with complying with the MATS rule. The Southern Company system is assessing the potential costs of complying with the MATS rule, as well as the EPA’s proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rules. The potential incremental environmental compliance investments in 2012, based on the assumption that coal combustion byproducts will continue to be regulated as non-hazardous solid waste under the proposed rule, are as follows: SouthernCompany system AlabamaPower GeorgiaPower GulfPower Mississippi Power (in millions) MATS rule Up to $370 Up to $170 — Up to $45 Up to $30 Proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rules Up to $40 Up to $5 Up to $30 Up to $5 Up to $1 Total potential incremental environmental compliance investments Up to $410 Up to $175 Up to $30 Up to $50 Up to $31 For Southern Power, any incremental investments to comply with existing statutes and regulations, the MATS rule, or anticipated new environmental regulations in 2012 are expected to be immaterial. I-4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; changes in generating plants, including unit retirements and replacements, to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; project scope and design changes; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. See “Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations” herein for additional information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power’s, Georgia Power’s, and Southern Power’s joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities. Financing Programs See each of the registrant’s MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8 herein for information concerning financing programs. Fuel Supply The traditional operating companies’ and SEGCO’s supply of electricity is derived mainly from coal. Southern Power’s supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – “Electricity Business – Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses” of Southern Company and MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – “Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses” of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour generated for the years 2009 through 2011. The traditional operating companies have agreements in place from which they expect to receive substantially all of their coal burn requirements in 2012. These agreements have terms ranging between one and eight years. In 2011, the weighted average sulfur content of all coal burned by the traditional operating companies was 0.80% sulfur. This sulfur level, along with banked and purchased sulfur dioxide allowances, allowed the traditional operating companies to remain within limits set by Phase I of the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) under the Clean Air Act. In 2011, the Southern Company system purchased approximately 563 tons of sulfur dioxide allowances and 3,096 tons of seasonal nitrogen oxide emission allowances to be used in current and future periods. As additional environmental regulations are proposed that impact the utilization of coal, the traditional operating companies’ fuel mix will be monitored to ensure that the traditional operating companies remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies will continue to evaluate the need to purchase additional emissions allowances, the timing of capital expenditures for emissions control equipment, and potential unit retirements and replacements. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Environmental Matters” of Southern Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information on the Clean Air Act, the MATS rule, the Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), CAIR, the proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rules, and global climate issues. SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, has agreements in place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2012, SCS has contracted for 378 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply under agreements with remaining terms up to nine years. In addition to natural gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm natural gas transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company system’s natural gas generating units. Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See “Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans” herein for additional information. Southern Power’s PPAs generally provide that the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel. I-5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of the Southern Company system’s nuclear generating units. Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power have pursued and are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under “Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs” in Item 8 herein for additional information. Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and an estimated population of approximately 16 million. Southern Power sells electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market primarily to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives. Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in approximately 400 cities and towns (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales to Alabama Municipal Electric Authority, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances. Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia, at retail in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, Hampton, various electric membership corporations, and non-affiliated utilities. Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and a municipality. Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative. For information relating to KWH sales by customer classification for the traditional operating companies, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is made to Item 7 herein. The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale. I-6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 2,027 MWs of nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power’s Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth’s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such energy is available. Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service territories of Alabama Power and Gulf Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power’s joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a portion of Plant Miller. Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power’s service territory. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power’s service territory and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power. Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of protective capacity by Mississippi Power to SMEPA. In July 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby SMEPA agreed to purchase an undivided 17.5% interest in the Kemper IGCC. The closing of this transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions. In December 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA filed a joint petition with the Mississippi PSC requesting regulatory approval for SMEPA’s 17.5% ownership of the Kemper IGCC. There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale. Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive their requirements through MEAG Power, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and purchases from other resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power and Southern Power through a service agreement. In addition, Georgia Power serves the full requirements of Hampton’s electric distribution system under a market-based contract. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission Corporation, MEAG Power, and Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties. The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. Southern Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, electric cooperatives, and an energy marketing firm. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Power Sales Agreements” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information concerning Southern Power’s PPAs. SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA providing for the use of the traditional operating companies’ facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and I-7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects. Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued “Grandfather Certificates” of public convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a “Grandfather Certificate,” the utility holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC. Competition The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Policy Act of 1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility’s transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities. The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply. The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 KWs may exercise a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its choice. Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees as the result of self-generation (as described below) by customers and other factors. Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales primarily in the Southeastern U.S. wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power’s success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and availability of Southern Power’s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price, and Southern Power’s ability to contain costs. Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with nine industrial customers. Under the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess generation of such companies. During 2011, Alabama Power purchased approximately 115 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $5 million. Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with 10 small power producers whereby Georgia Power purchases their excess generation. During 2011, Georgia Power purchased 18 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $0.6 million. Georgia Power also has PPAs for electricity with two cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. During 2011, Georgia Power purchased 261 million KWHs at a cost of $26 million from these facilities. I-8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Also during 2011, Georgia Power purchased energy from eight customer-owned generating facilities. Seven of the eight customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These seven customers make no capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract with the remaining customer for eight MWs of dispatchable capacity and energy. During 2011, Georgia Power purchased a total of 37 million KWHs from the eight customers at a cost of approximately $1 million. Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases “as available” energy from customer-owned generation. During 2011, Gulf Power purchased 240 million KWHs from such companies for approximately $11 million. Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation. During 2011, Mississippi Power did not purchase any excess generation from this customer. Seasonality The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. Regulation State Commissions The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs. The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail service territories. See “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power” and “Rate Matters” herein for additional information. Federal Power Act The traditional operating companies, Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an “at cost standard” for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS and Southern Nuclear. The FERC is also authorized to establish regional reliability organizations which are authorized to enforce reliability standards, to address impediments to the construction of transmission, and to prohibit manipulative energy trading practices. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 KWs and 18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,087,296 KWs. In 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for its seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC licenses for all of these nine projects expired in 2007. Since the FERC did not act on Alabama Power’s new license applications prior to the expiration of the existing licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses to Alabama Power, under the terms and conditions of the existing license, until action is taken on the new license applications. I-9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The FERC issued annual licenses to the Coosa developments and the Warrior River developments in 2007. These annual licenses are automatically renewed each year without further action by the FERC to allow Alabama Power to continue operation of the projects under the terms of the previous license while the FERC completes review of the applications for new licenses. Though the Coosa application remains pending before the FERC, in March 2010, the FERC issued a new 30 year license to Alabama Power for the Warrior River developments. In April 2010, the Smith Lake Improvement and Stakeholder Association filed a request for rehearing of the FERC order granting the new Warrior license. In May 2010, the FERC granted the rehearing request for the limited purpose of allowing the FERC additional time to consider the substantive issues raised in the request. In 2006, Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Martin Dam Project located on the Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire on June 8, 2013. On June 8, 2011, Alabama Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Martin Dam Project. In 2010, Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Holt hydroelectric project located on the Warrior River. The current Holt license will expire on August 31, 2015, and the application for a new license is expected to be filed with the FERC no later than August 31, 2013. In 2007, Georgia Power began the relicensing process for Bartlett’s Ferry which is located on the Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett’s Ferry license expires in 2014 and the application for a new license is expected to be submitted to the FERC in late 2012. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters” of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein for additional information. Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 KW capacity. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2023-2034 in the case of Alabama Power’s projects and in the period 2020-2039 in the case of Georgia Power’s projects. Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property. Nuclear Regulation Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws. In 2002, the NRC extended the licenses of Georgia Power’s Plant Hatch Units 1 and 2 until 2034 and 2038, respectively. In 2005, the NRC extended the licenses of Alabama Power’s Plant Farley Units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively. In 2009, the NRC extended the licenses of Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 to 2047 and 2049, respectively. Also in 2009, the NRC issued an Early Site Permit and Limited Work Authorization to Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, OPC, MEAG Power, and Dalton (collectively, Owners), related to Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. In I-10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. The NRC certified the Westinghouse Electric Company LLC’s Design Certification Document, as amended, for the AP1000 reactor design, effective December 30, 2011. On February 9, 2012, the NRC affirmed a decision directing the NRC staff to proceed with issuance of the COLs for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in accordance with its regulations. The COLs were received on February 10, 2012. Receipt of the COLs allows full construction to begin on Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are expected to attain commercial operation in 2016 and 2017, respectively. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction — Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for additional information. See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance. Environmental Statutes and Regulations Southern Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for Southern Power. There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered. Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to the Southern Company system, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, management of waste materials and coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including, but not limited to, the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act, proposed and final regulations related to air quality, water, greenhouse gases, and coal combustion byproducts. Also see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information about environmental issues and climate change regulation. The Southern Company system’s compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures are dependent on a final assessment of the MATS rule and will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations that are promulgated, including proposed environmental regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. These costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, the addition of new generating resources, and changing fuel sources for certain existing units. The Southern Company system’s preliminary analysis further indicates that the short timeframe for compliance with the MATS rule could significantly affect electric system reliability and cause an increase in costs of materials and services. Also see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. As of December 31, 2011, the Southern Company system had total generating capacity of approximately 43,555 MWs, of which 20,212 MWs are coal-fired. Over the past several years, the Southern Company system has installed various pollution control technologies on coal-fired units, including both selective catalytic reduction equipment and scrubbers on the 17 largest coal units making up 11,036 MWs of the Southern Company system’s coal-fired generating capacity. As a result of the EPA’s final and anticipated rules and regulations, the Southern Company system is evaluating its coal-fired generating capacity and is developing a compliance strategy which may include unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls (including its units with existing pollution control technologies), and changing fuel sources for certain units. I-11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements SEGCO is also developing an environmental compliance strategy for its 1,000 MWs of coal-fired generating capacity, which may result in unit retirements, installation of controls, or changing fuel source. The capacity of SEGCO’s units is sold to Alabama Power and Georgia Power through a PPA. The impact of SEGCO’s compliance strategy on such PPA costs cannot be determined at this time; however, if such costs cannot continue to be recovered through retail rates, they could have a material financial impact on Southern Company’s, Alabama Power’s, or Georgia Power’s financial statements. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information. Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations relating to global climate change, air quality, coal combustion byproducts, water, or other environmental and health concerns could significantly affect the Southern Company system. Although new or revised environmental legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the electric utilities’ operations, the full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time. Additionally, many of the electric utilities’ commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity. See “Construction Program” herein for additional information. Rate Matters Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class of service throughout their respective service territories. Rates for residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon KWHs used and include minimum charges. Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers’ rates are generally based upon usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval. The traditional operating companies recover their respective costs through a variety of forward-looking, cost-based rate mechanisms. Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed or on schedules as required by the respective PSCs. Approved environmental compliance, storm damage, and certain other costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power through specific cost recovery mechanisms approved by their respective PSCs. Certain similar costs at Georgia Power are recovered through various base rate tariffs as approved by the Georgia PSC. Costs not recovered through specific cost recovery mechanisms are recovered at Alabama Power and Mississippi Power through annual, formulaic cost recovery proceedings and at Georgia Power and Gulf Power through base rate proceedings. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “PSC Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies under “Retail Regulatory Matters” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters. Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage costs, and environmental compliance costs through rate mechanisms. See “Integrated Resource Planning” herein for a discussion of Georgia PSC certification of new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power. In addition, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction – Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act and the Georgia PSC certification of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which allow Georgia Power to recover financing costs for construction of the new nuclear units during the construction period beginning in 2011. I-12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The traditional operating companies and Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries are authorized by the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate. Integrated Resource Planning Each of the traditional operating companies continually evaluates its electric generating resources in order to ensure that it maintains a cost-effective and reliable mix of resources to meet the existing and future demand requirements of its customers. See “Environmental Statutes and Regulations” above for a discussion of existing and potential environmental regulations that may impact the future generating resource needs of the traditional operating companies. Certain of the traditional operating companies periodically file IRPs with their respective state PSC. The following is a summary of the most recent IRP filings by certain of the traditional operating companies. Georgia Power Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power to get cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and purchased power costs is recoverable through rates. Certified costs may be excluded from recovery only on the basis of fraud, concealment, failure to disclose a material fact, imprudence, or criminal misconduct. In January 2010, Georgia Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Georgia PSC. The 2010 IRP projected that Georgia Power’s current supply-side and demand-side resources are sufficient to provide a cost-effective and reliable source of capacity and energy at least through 2014. The 2010 IRP identified a number of potential new or modified federal environmental statutes and regulations that could significantly impact Georgia Power’s existing coal-fired generating units. In addition, under the State of Georgia’s Multi-Pollutant Rule, Georgia Power is required to install specific emissions controls on certain coal-fired generating units by specific dates between December 31, 2008 and June 1, 2015. See “Environmental Statutes and Regulations” above. In July 2010, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power’s 2010 IRP including the following provisions: (1) restarting a request for proposal to enable the potential replacement of coal units that may be retired beginning in approximately 2015; (2) expanding energy efficiency efforts; (3) implementing seven new demand-side management and energy efficiency programs; (4) collecting incentives totaling 10% of the net benefit of energy efficiency programs annually, with certain conditions, for the certified programs; (5) developing a one MW self-build portfolio of solar photovoltaic demonstration projects; (6) delaying capital spending on the conversion of Plant Mitchell Unit 3 from a coal-fired generating unit to a renewable biomass generating unit until the EPA issues applicable maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards under the Clean Air Act; (7) considering conversion of additional coal units to biomass, if such conversions appear to be economic and feasible; and (8) continuing to suspend work on environmental controls for Units 6 and 7 at Plant Yates and Units 3 and 4 at Plant Branch until the EPA issues applicable MACT standards and regulations for coal combustion byproducts. In addition, Georgia Power’s 2010 IRP reflected the construction of Plant McDonough Units 4, 5, and 6 (natural gas) and Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 (nuclear) as certified by the Georgia PSC in 2007 and 2009, respectively. The 2010 IRP also reflected the related retirement of Plant McDonough Units 1 and 2 (coal), which were decertified by the Georgia PSC in connection with construction of the new units. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Other Construction” in Item 8 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under “Construction” in Item 8 herein for additional information. I-13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements On August 4, 2011, Georgia Power filed an update to its IRP (2011 IRP Update). The filing included Georgia Power’s application to decertify and retire Plant Branch Units 1 and 2 as of December 31, 2013 and October 1, 2013, the compliance dates for the respective units under the Georgia Multi-Pollutant Rule, and to decertify and retire Plant Mitchell Unit 4C in March 2012. Georgia Power also requested approval of expenditures for certain baghouse project preparation work at Plants Bowen, Wansley, and Hammond. However, as a result of the considerable uncertainty regarding pending federal environmental regulations, Georgia Power is continuing to defer decisions to add controls, switch fuel, or retire its remaining fleet of coal- and oil-fired generation where environmental controls have not yet been installed, representing approximately 2,600 MWs of capacity. Georgia Power is currently updating its economic analysis of these units based on the final MATS rule and currently expects that certain units, representing approximately 600 MWs of capacity, are more likely than others to switch fuel or be controlled in time to comply with the MATS rule. If the updated economic analysis shows more positive benefits associated with adding controls or switching fuel for more units, it is unlikely that all of the required controls could be completed by April 16, 2015, the compliance date for the MATS rule. As a result, Georgia Power cannot rely on the availability of approximately 2,000 MWs of capacity in 2015. As such, the 2011 IRP Update also includes Georgia Power’s application requesting that the Georgia PSC certify the purchase of a total of 1,562 MWs of capacity beginning in 2015, from four PPAs selected through the 2015 request for proposal process. In addition, Georgia Power filed a request with the Georgia PSC on August 4, 2011 for the certification of 562 MWs of certain wholesale capacity that is scheduled to be returned to retail service in 2015 and 2016 under a September 2010 agreement with Georgia PSC. On January 30, 2012, Georgia Power entered into a stipulation with the Georgia PSC Advocacy Staff to grant the Georgia PSC an extension to the Georgia PSC’s termination option date from February 1, 2012 to March 27, 2012. The Georgia PSC can exercise the termination option under specific conditions, such as changes in the cost of compliance with EPA rules and coal unit retirement decisions. The Georgia PSC is expected to vote on these requests in March 2012. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. Gulf Power Annually by April 1, Gulf Power must file a 10-year site plan with the Florida PSC containing Gulf Power’s estimate of its power-generating needs in the period and the general location of its proposed power plant sites. The 10-year site plans submitted by the state’s electric utilities are reviewed by the Florida PSC and subsequently classified as either “suitable” or “unsuitable.” The Florida PSC then reports its findings along with any suggested revisions to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection for its consideration at any subsequent electrical power plant site certification proceedings. Under Florida law, any 10-year site plans submitted by an electric utility are considered tentative information for planning purposes only and may be amended at any time at the discretion of the utility with written notification to the Florida PSC. At least every five years, the Florida PSC must conduct proceedings to establish numerical goals for all investor-owned electric utilities and certain municipal or cooperative electric utilities in the state to reduce the growth rates of weather-sensitive peak demand, to reduce and control the growth rates of electric consumption, and to increase the conservation of expensive resources, such as petroleum fuels. Overall residential KWs and KWH goals and overall commercial/industrial KWs and KWH goals for each utility are set by the Florida PSC for each year over a 10-year period. The goals are to be based on an estimate of the total cost effective KWs and KWH savings reasonably achievable through demand-side management in each utility’s service territory over a 10-year period. Once goals have been set, each affected utility must develop and submit plans and programs to meet the overall goals within its service territory to the Florida PSC for review and approval. Once approved, the utilities are required to submit periodic reports which the Florida PSC then uses to prepare its annual report to the Governor and Legislature of the goals that have been established and the progress towards meeting those goals. Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan was classified by the Florida PSC as “suitable” on November 22, 2011. Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan and environmental compliance plan identify environmental regulations and potential legislation or regulation that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS —FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air Quality,” “Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Coal Combustion Byproducts,” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate Issues” of Gulf Power in Item 7 herein. The site plan and environmental compliance plan include preliminary retirement studies under a variety of potential scenarios for units at each of Gulf Power’s coal-fired generating plants. These studies I-14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements indicate that, depending on the final requirements in these anticipated EPA regulations and any legislation or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as estimates of long-term fuel prices, Gulf Power may conclude that it is more economical to retire certain of its coal-fired generating units prior to 2021 and to replace such units with new or purchased capacity. In 2009, the Florida PSC adopted new numerical conservation goals for Gulf Power along with other electric utilities in the state. The Florida PSC adopted more aggressive goals due in part to the consideration of possible greenhouse gas emissions costs incurred in connection with possible climate change legislation and a change in the manner in which the Florida PSC considers the effect of so-called “free-riders” on the level of conservation reasonably achievable through utility programs. Gulf Power’s plans and programs to meet the new goals were submitted to the Florida PSC for review in March 2010 and were approved on January 25, 2011. The costs of implementing Gulf Power’s conservation plans and programs are recovered through specific conservation recovery rates set annually by the Florida PSC. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. Mississippi Power In 2009, Mississippi Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Mississippi PSC. The filing was made in connection with the Mississippi PSC certification proceedings relating to the Kemper IGCC. In the 2010 IRP, Mississippi Power projected that it will have a need for new capacity in the 2013 to 2015 timeframe. The 2010 IRP indicated a need range of approximately 200 MWs to 300 MWs in 2014, which reflects growth in load and the anticipated retirement of older gas steam units Plant Eaton Units 1 through 3 and Plant Watson Units 1 through 3 in 2012 and 2013, respectively. In addition, due to potential retirements of existing coal units, the Mississippi PSC found a need in 2015 that ranges from 304 MWs to 1,276 MWs. The range of needs for 2015 is based on Mississippi Power’s preliminary analysis of the MATS rule, as well as potential legislation or regulations that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air Quality” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate Issues” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein. Depending on Mississippi Power’s final assessment of the MATS rule, the final requirements in the anticipated EPA regulations, and any legislation or regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as estimates of long-term fuel prices, Mississippi Power may conclude that it is more economical to discontinue burning coal at certain coal-fired generating units than to install the required controls. Mississippi Power’s 2010 IRP indicated that Mississippi Power plans to construct the Kemper IGCC to meet its identified needs, to add environmental controls at Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, to defer environmental controls at Plant Watson Units 4 and 5, and to continue operation of the combined cycle Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the Governor in 2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC’s authority to facilitate development and construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the prudently incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing a base load electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC, the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest determination as to whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in connection with such cancelled generating plant. The effect of this legislation on Southern Company and Mississippi Power cannot be determined at this time. I-15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In May 2010, Mississippi Power filed a motion with the Mississippi PSC accepting the conditions contained in the Mississippi PSC order confirming Mississippi Power’s application for a certification of public convenience and necessity (CPCN) authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the Kemper IGCC. In June 2010, the Mississippi PSC issued the CPCN. The estimated cost of the plant is $2.4 billion, net of $245.3 million of grants awarded to the project by the DOE under the Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 2. The Mississippi PSC’s order (1) approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion (exemptions from the cost cap include the cost of the lignite mine and equipment and the carbon dioxide (CO2) pipeline facilities), (2) provided for the establishment of operational cost and revenue parameters based upon assumptions in the Mississippi Power proposal, and (3) approved financing cost recovery on construction work in progress (CWIP) balances, which provided for the accrual of an allowance for funds used during construction in 2010 and 2011 and provides for the recovery of financing costs on 100% of CWIP in 2012, 2013, and through May 1, 2014 (provided that the amount of CWIP allowed is (i) reduced by the amount of state and federal government construction cost incentives received by Mississippi Power in excess of $296 million to the extent that such amount increases cash flow for the pertinent regulatory period and (ii) justified by a showing that such CWIP allowance will benefit customers over the life of the plant). The Mississippi PSC order established periodic prudence reviews during the annual CWIP review process. Of the costs incurred through March 2009, $46 million has been reviewed and approved by the Mississippi PSC. A decision regarding the remaining $5 million has been deferred to a later date. The timing of the review of the remaining Kemper IGCC costs is uncertain. On April 27, 2011 and August 9, 2011, Mississippi Power submitted to the Mississippi PSC proposed rate schedules detailing Certificated New Plant-A (CNP-A) and Certificated New Plant-B (CNP-B), respectively. CNP-A and CNP-B are proposed cost recovery mechanisms authorized by the Baseload Act. CNP-A is designed specifically to recover financing costs during the construction phase of the Kemper IGCC and CNP-B is designed to govern rates after the Kemper IGCC is placed into commercial service. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “PSC Matters — Certificated New Plant” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” and Mississippi Power under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Certificated New Plant” in Item 8 herein for additional information. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. Employee Relations The Southern Company system had a total of 26,377 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2011. Employees at December 31, 2011 Alabama Power 6,632 Georgia Power 8,310 Gulf Power 1,424 Mississippi Power 1,264 SCS 4,533 Southern Nuclear 3,933 Southern Power* 0 Other 281 Total 26,377 * Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC regulations. The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and construction employees. I-16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Alabama Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through August 15, 2014. Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 2016. Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through September 14, 2014. Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through August 15, 2014. Southern Nuclear and the IBEW ratified a new five-year labor agreement for certain employees at Plants Hatch and Vogtle on September 16, 2011. The agreement is effective through June 30, 2016. A five-year agreement between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain employees at Plant Farley, which was ratified in 2009, remains in effect through August 15, 2014. The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions. I-17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries. UTILITY REGULATORY, LEGISLATIVE, AND LITIGATION RISKS Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, solar, and nuclear generating facilities, as well as transmission and distribution facilities. For example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by Southern Power must be approved by the FERC. These wholesale rates could be affected absent the ability to conduct business pursuant to FERC market-based rate authority. Additionally, the respective state PSCs must approve the traditional operating companies’ requested rates for retail customers. While the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no assurance that a state PSC, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of return. Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. Changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of Southern Company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. The Southern Company system’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, renewable energy standards, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power. The Southern Company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. Compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. These expenditures are significant and Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power expect that they will increase in the future. Through 2011, the traditional operating companies had invested approximately $8.3 billion in environmental capital retrofit projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $300 million, $500 million, and $1.3 billion for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, water, coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. I-18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements During 2011, the EPA proposed revisions and revised or issued additional regulations and designations with respect to air quality under the Clean Air Act, including finalization of the eight-hour ozone standards, the CSAPR, which relates to nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions, and the MATS rule for coal- and oil-fired electric generating units, which imposes stringent emissions limits for acid gases, mercury, and total particulate matter. On April 20, 2011, the EPA published a proposed water quality rule relating to cooling water intake structures at existing power plants and manufacturing facilities. Compliance with the proposed rule could require changes to existing cooling water intake structures at certain of the traditional operating companies’ generating facilities, and new generating units constructed at existing plants would be required to install closed cycle cooling towers. In addition, the EPA is currently evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts (including coal ash and gypsum) is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. In June 2010, the EPA published a proposed rule that requested comments on two potential regulatory options for the management and disposal of coal combustion byproducts: regulation as a solid waste or regulation as if the materials technically constituted a hazardous waste. Adoption of either option could require closure of, or significant change to, existing storage facilities and construction of lined landfills, as well as additional waste management and groundwater monitoring requirements and impact of the beneficial reuse of coal combustion byproducts. Under both options, the EPA proposes to exempt the beneficial use of coal combustion byproducts from regulation; however, a hazardous or other designation indicative of heightened risk could limit or eliminate beneficial reuse options. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles, and, in April 2010, the EPA issued regulations to that effect. When these regulations became effective, carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases became regulated pollutants under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) preconstruction permit program and the Title V operating permit program, which both apply to power plants and other commercial and industrial facilities. In May 2010, the EPA issued a final rule, known as the Tailoring Rule, governing how these programs would be applied to stationary sources, including power plants. In addition to these rules, the EPA has announced plans to propose a rule setting forth standards of performance for greenhouse gas emissions from new and modified fossil fuel-fired electric generating units in early 2012 and greenhouse gas emissions guidelines for existing sources in late 2012. The ultimate outcome of these rules cannot be determined at this time and will depend on the outcome of any legal challenges. Each of the states in which the Southern Company system has fossil generation is subject to the requirements of CAIR, which calls for phased reductions in sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from power plants in 28 eastern states. On August 8, 2011, the EPA adopted the CSAPR to replace CAIR effective January 1, 2012. Like CAIR, the CSAPR was intended to address interstate emissions of SO2 and NOx that interfere with downwind states’ ability to meet or maintain national ambient air quality standards for ozone and/or particulate matter. On February 7, 2012, the EPA released the final technical revisions to the CSAPR and at the same time issued a direct final rule which together provide additional increases to certain state emissions budgets, including the States of Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi. On February 16, 2012, the EPA published the final MATS rule, which imposes stringent emissions limits for acid gases, mercury, and total particulate matter on coal- and oil-fired electric utility steam generating units. Compliance for existing sources is required by April 16, 2015 – three years after the effective date of the final rule. The Southern Company system is assessing the potential costs of complying with the MATS rule, as well as the EPA’s proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rules. The Southern Company system’s compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures are dependent on a final assessment of the MATS rule and will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations that are promulgated, including the proposed environmental regulations described above; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. These costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, the addition of new generating resources, and changing fuel sources for certain existing units. The Southern Company system’s preliminary analysis further indicates that the short timeframe for compliance with the MATS rule could I-19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements significantly affect electric system reliability and cause an increase in costs of materials and services. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. Additional compliance costs (including costs for the installation of environmental controls) and costs related to potential unit retirements and replacements could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered from customers. Further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively impact results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. If Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. The EPA has filed civil actions against Alabama Power and Georgia Power and issued notices of violation to Gulf Power and Mississippi Power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies (excluding Mississippi Power), and Southern Power are also parties to suits alleging that emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global climate change. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for Southern Power. Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has increased generally throughout the U.S. In particular, personal injury and other claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and common law nuisance claims for injunctive relief and property damage allegedly caused by greenhouse gas and other emissions, have become more frequent. The ultimate cost impact of proposed and final legislation and regulations and litigation are likely to result in significant and additional costs and could result in additional operating restrictions. The regional power market in which the Southern Company system competes may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. The traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. A small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. Ongoing FERC efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission could have an adverse impact on future revenues. In addition, pending FERC regulation pertaining to cost allocation could require Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries to subsidize costs outside of the Southern Company system’s retail service territory. The financial condition, net income, and cash flows of Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by pending or future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the North American Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. In addition, the MATS rule imposes stringent emission limits for acid gases, mercury, and total particulate matter on coal- and oil-fired electric utility steam generating units. There is uncertainty regarding the ability of the electric utility industry to achieve compliance with the requirements of the MATS rule within the compliance period, and the limited compliance period could significantly affect electric system reliability and thus impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to comply with mandatory reliability standards. If any traditional operating company or Southern Power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional operating company or Southern Power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. I-20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements OPERATIONAL RISKS The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries’ electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks, including: • operator error or failure of equipment or processes, particularly with older generating facilities; • operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; • labor disputes; • terrorist attacks; • fuel or material supply interruptions; • compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; • implementation of technologies with which the Southern Company system is developing experience; • information technology system failure; • cyber intrusion; and • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. A decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Changes in technology may make Southern Company’s electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and Southern Power less competitive. A key element of the business model of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. There are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. It is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. If this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. It is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power. I-21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by Alabama Power or Georgia Power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. Alabama Power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. The six existing units are operated by Southern Nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 MWs, or 8.4%, of Southern Company’s generation capacity as of December 31, 2011. In addition, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are expected to attain commercial operation in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase once Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are operational. Nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as: • the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of spent nuclear fuel; • uncertainties with respect to the on-site storage of and the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; • uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; • limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of Alabama Power and Georgia Power or those of others in the United States; • potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; • significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the NRC; • the threat of a possible terrorist attack; and • the impact of a natural disaster. Alabama Power and Georgia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. As a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the Fukushima Daiichi generating plant, the NRC is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the U.S., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. On July 12, 2011, a special NRC task force issued a report with initial recommendations for enhancing nuclear reactor safety in the U.S., including potential changes in emergency planning, onsite backup generation, and spent fuel pools for reactors. The final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the NRC and cannot be determined at this time. In the event of non-compliance with NRC licensing and safety-related requirements, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. NRC orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition, although Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the Southern Company system I-22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements nuclear plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to Alabama Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the United States could require Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make material contributory payments. In addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. Physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional grid. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees and other confidential information. Despite the implementation of security measures, all technology systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber attacks. If the traditional operating companies’ or Southern Power’s technology systems were to fail or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. The theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional operating company or Southern Power to penalties and claims from third parties. These events could negatively affect the financial results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company. The traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. Each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. In addition, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to a greater extent are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. Natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane. I-23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the cost and availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power depend in part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to one of these PPAs to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the PPAs, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Most of Southern Power’s generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under PPAs. In addition, the traditional operating companies enter into PPAs with non-affiliated parties. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these PPAs. Even though Southern Power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. Additionally, neither Southern Power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the PPAs will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. If a PPA is not renewed, a replacement PPA cannot be assured. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact Southern Company’s and its subsidiaries’ results of operations. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. Such operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with new nuclear and IGCC construction. Failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect Southern Company and its subsidiaries’ ability to manage and operate their businesses. If Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. CONSTRUCTION RISKS Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. Also, existing facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. The businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. Certain of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. Southern Company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including new nuclear generating, combined cycle, IGCC, and biomass generating units, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. These types of projects are long-term in nature and may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. The completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: • shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; • work stoppages; • contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements; I-24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; • impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; • continued public and policymaker support for such projects; • adverse weather conditions; • unforeseen engineering problems; • changes in project design or scope; • environmental and geological conditions; • delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and • unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor. In addition, with respect to the construction of new nuclear units and the operation of existing nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. As a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the Fukushima Daiichi generating plant, the NRC is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the U.S., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. On July 12, 2011, a special NRC task force issued a report with initial recommendations for enhancing nuclear reactor safety in the U.S., including potential changes in emergency planning, onsite backup generation, and spent fuel pools for reactors. The final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the NRC and cannot be determined at this time. If a traditional operating company or Southern Power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. Even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. In addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Construction delays also may result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits and other tax incentives. Furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. The two largest construction projects currently underway in the Southern Company system are the construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and the construction of the Kemper IGCC. Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Georgia Power owns 45.7% of the new units, with a certified cost of approximately $6.1 billion. The Georgia PSC has approved Georgia Power’s total costs of $1.7 billion for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 incurred through June 30, 2011. Georgia Power will continue to file construction monitoring reports by February 28 and August 31 of each year during the construction period. The COLs for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 were received on February 10, 2012. Receipt of the COLs allows full construction to begin on Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are expected to obtain commercial operation in 2016 and 2017, respectively. During the course of construction activities, issues have materialized that may impact the project budget and schedule, including potential costs associated with compressing the project schedule to meet the projected commercial operation dates. In addition, there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Similar additional challenges at the state and federal level are expected as construction proceeds. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. I-25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, Mississippi Power is constructing the Kemper IGCC. In July 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement whereby SMEPA agreed to purchase a 17.5% undivided ownership interest in the Kemper IGCC. The closing of this transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions. The estimated cost of the plant is $2.4 billion, net of $245 million of grants awarded to the project by the DOE under the Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 2. The Mississippi PSC order approving the Kemper IGCC included a construction cost cap of $2.88 billion (excluding the cost of the lignite mine equipment and the carbon dioxide pipeline facilities) and provides for the establishment of operational cost and revenue parameters based upon the assumptions in Mississippi Power’s proposal. As of December 31, 2011, Mississippi Power had spent a total of approximately $943.3 million on the Kemper IGCC, including regulatory filing costs. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. Once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. Significant portions of the traditional operating companies’ existing facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND MARKET RISKS The generation operations and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce Southern Company’s, the traditional operating companies’, and Southern Power’s revenues and increase costs. The generation operations and energy marketing operations of the Southern Company system are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount received from the sale of power. The market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. In addition, the proportion of natural gas generation to the total fuel mix is likely to increase in the future. The Southern Company system attempts to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies’ fuel cost recovery clauses or through PPAs. Among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: • prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; • demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; • liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; • weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; • seasonality; • transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; • availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; • forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company system, its competitors, or third party providers; I-26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the financial condition of market participants; • the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels; • natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and • federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company. For the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. Other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company. Historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such balances and deficits in the future. While the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective PSCs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and Southern Company. Southern Company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to Southern Company. Southern Company is a holding company and, as such, Southern Company has no operations of its own. Substantially all of Southern Company’s consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. Southern Company’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to Southern Company. Prior to funding Southern Company, Southern Company’s subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. Southern Company’s subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide Southern Company with funds. A downgrade in the credit ratings of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. There are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. If one or more rating agencies downgrade Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power, borrowing costs would increase, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. I-27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. Southern Company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. These risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. These risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. In addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. The factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) enacted in July 2010 could impact the use of over-the-counter derivatives by Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Regulations to implement the Dodd-Frank Act could impose additional requirements on the use of over-the-counter derivatives, such as margin and reporting requirements, which could affect both the use and cost of over-the-counter derivatives. The impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are finalized. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment as well as the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in their applicable service territory and are thus impacted by the economic cycles of the customers each serves. Any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. As territories served by the traditional operating companies and Southern Power experience economic downturns, energy consumption patterns may change and revenues may be negatively impacted. Customer growth and customer usage can be affected by economic factors in the service territory of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power and elsewhere, including, for example, job and income growth, housing starts, and new home prices. Adverse economic conditions, a population decline, and/or business closings in the territory served by the traditional operating companies or Southern Power or slower than anticipated customer growth as a result of a recessionary economy or otherwise could also have a negative impact on revenues and could result in greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. As with other parts of the country, the territories served by the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have been impacted by the recent economic recession. The traditional operating companies have experienced residential and commercial sales that continue to be below historical trends due to the recent economic recession. Southern Power is expected to continue to experience reduced future revenues for its requirements customers due to the recent economic recession. The timing and extent of the recovery cannot be predicted. Stronger or more rapid than expected economic growth, coupled with the effects of current and future environmental regulations applicable to the traditional operating companies or Southern Power, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to meet the energy demands of their customers. Weaker or slower than expected economic growth could have a negative impact on revenues, could result in greater expense for uncollected customer balances, and could adversely impact the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. All of the factors discussed above could adversely affect Southern Company’s, the traditional operating companies’, and Southern Power’s level of future net income. I-28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation facilities. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the Southern Company system’s available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or Southern Power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation facilities. Because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies’ recovery in customers’ rates. Under Southern Power’s long-term fixed price PPAs, Southern Power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and for Southern Company. Demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power each engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. This planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. Inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. Because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies’ recovery in customers’ rates. Under Southern Power’s model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term PPAs, Southern Power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. Southern Power may not be able to extend its existing PPAs or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing PPAs expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and for Southern Company. Energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. Customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy price, or individual conservation efforts. In addition, a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Conservation programs could impact the financial results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in different ways. For example, if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and Southern Company. Certain of the traditional operating companies actively promote energy conservation programs, which have been approved by their respective state PSCs. Regulatory mechanisms have been established that provide for the recovery of costs related to such programs and lost revenues as a result of such programs. However, to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand beyond what is anticipated, the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted and the traditional operating companies could be negatively impacted depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. In addition, the failure of those traditional operating companies who actively promote energy conservation programs to achieve the energy conservation targets established by their respective state PSCs could negatively impact such traditional operating company’s ability to recover costs and receive certain benefits related to such programs. I-29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power could also be negatively impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on their respective financial condition or results of operations. The operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and droughts could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. Electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power. In addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power have significant investments in the Atlantic and Gulf Coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. Further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. In the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state PSC. While the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state PSC or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company’s and Southern Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting Southern Power’s customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. For example, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of Mississippi in 2005 and caused substantial damage within Mississippi Power’s service territory. As of December 31, 2011, Mississippi Power had over 8,300 fewer retail customers as compared to pre-storm levels due to obstacles in the rebuilding process as a result of the storm, coupled with the recessionary economy. Any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company’s, Southern Power’s, and Southern Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. I-30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The business of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power is dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. The inability of Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. If Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. Each of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. Such disruptions could include: • an economic downturn or uncertainty; • the bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; • capital markets volatility and disruption, both nationally and internationally; • market prices for electricity and gas; • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Southern Company’s facilities or unrelated energy companies’ facilities; • war or threat of war; or • the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust assets or may increase plan costs, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under Southern Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission Alabama Power’s and Georgia Power’s nuclear plants. Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. A decline in the market value of these assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to benefit plan liabilities of the Southern Company system and Alabama Power’s and Georgia Power’s nuclear decommissioning obligations. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under pension and postretirement benefit plans of the Southern Company system; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. It is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. If the Southern Company system is unable to successfully manage I-31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. Southern Company may be unable to recover its investment in its leveraged leases if a lessee fails to profitably operate the leased assets. Southern Company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. Southern Company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. Southern Company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. With respect to Southern Company’s investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. A significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance. The financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. The availability of insurance covering risks that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. Further, while Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power maintain an amount of insurance protection that they consider adequate, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies selected by them will cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. Any losses not covered by insurance could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power. The net income of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power could be negatively impacted by a wholesale electric market structure in which Southern Company could not be competitive with other market participants. Competition at the wholesale level continues to evolve in the electricity markets. As a result of changes in federal law, regulatory uncertainty, and industry restructuring, competing in the wholesale electricity markets has become more challenging. FERC rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers, including initiatives designed to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. However, transmission regulation impacts wholesale transaction structures, and generation regulation may impact wholesale markets. In addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. Finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. I-32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 