Item 1A Risk Factors I-12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments I-21 Item 2 Properties I-22 Item 3 Legal Proceedings I-24 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders I-25 Executive Officers of Southern Company I-26 Executive Officers of Alabama Power I-27 Executive Officers of Georgia Power I-28 Executive Officers of Mississippi Power I-29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrants’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities II-1 Item 6 Selected Financial Data II-2 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations II-2 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk II-2 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data II-3 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure II-4 Item 9A Controls and Procedures II-5 Item 9B Other Information II-5 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance III-1 Item 11 Executive Compensation III-1 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters III-3 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence III-1 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services III-4 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules IV-1 Signatures IV-2 i Table of Contents DEFINITIONS When used in Items 1 through 5 and Items 9A through 15, the following terms will have the meanings indicated. Term Meaning AEC Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc. AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction Alabama Power Alabama Power Company AMEA Alabama Municipal Electric Authority Clean Air Act Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 Dalton City of Dalton, Georgia DOE United States Department of Energy Duke Energy Duke Energy Corporation Energy Act of 1992 Energy Policy Act of 1992 Energy Act of 2005 Energy Policy Act of 2005 Energy Solutions Southern Company Energy Solutions, Inc. EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FMPA Florida Municipal Power Agency FP&L Florida Power & Light Company Gas South Gas South, LLC, an affiliate of Cobb Electric Membership Corporation Georgia Power Georgia Power Company Gulf Power Gulf Power Company Hampton City of Hampton, Georgia Holding Company Act Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers IIC Intercompany Interchange Contract IPP Independent power producer IRP Integrated Resource Plan IRS Internal Revenue Service JEA Jacksonville Electric Authority KUA Kissimmee Utility Authority MEAG Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia Mirant Mirant Corporation Mississippi Power Mississippi Power Company Moody’s Moody’s Investors Service NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission OPC Oglethorpe Power Corporation OUC Orlando Utilities Commission PPA Power Purchase Agreement Progress Energy Carolinas Carolina Power & Light Company, d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. Progress Energy Florida Florida Power Corporation, d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc. PSC Public Service Commission registrants The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company ii Table of Contents DEFINITIONS (continued) RFP Request for Proposal RTO Regional Transmission Organization RUS Rural Utility Service (formerly Rural Electrification Administration) S&P Standard and Poor’s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Savannah Electric Savannah Electric and Power Company (merged into Georgia Power on July 1, 2006) SCS Southern Company Services, Inc. (the system service company) SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SEGCO Southern Electric Generating Company SEPA Southeastern Power Administration SERC Southeastern Electric Reliability Council SMEPA South Mississippi Electric Power Association Southern Company The Southern Company Southern Company Gas Southern Company Gas LLC Southern Company system Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, SEGCO, Southern Nuclear, SCS, SouthernLINC Wireless and other subsidiaries Southern Holdings Southern Company Holdings, Inc. SouthernLINC Wireless Southern Communications Services, Inc. Southern Nuclear Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. Southern Power Southern Power Company Southern Telecom Southern Telecom, Inc. traditional operating companies Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company and Mississippi Power Company TVA Tennessee Valley Authority iii Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the strategic goals for Southern Company’s wholesale business, retail sales growth, customer growth, storm damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery, environmental regulations and expenditures, earnings growth, dividend payout ratios, access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust contributions, synthetic fuel investments, financing activities, completion of construction projects, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include: • the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Act of 2005, and also changes in environmental, tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; • current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries, including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC matters, IRS audits, and Mirant matters; • the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Company’s subsidiaries operate; • variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general economy and population, and business growth (and declines); • available sources and costs of fuels; • ability to control costs; • investment performance of Southern Company’s employee benefit plans; • advances in technology; • state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; • the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; • fluctuations in the level of oil prices; • the level of production, if any, by the synthetic fuel operations at Carbontronics Synfuels Investors LP and Alabama Fuel Products, LLC for fiscal year 2007; • internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; • potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; • the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due; • the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; • the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company’s business resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; • interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Company’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings; • the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; • the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company’s business resulting from incidents similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; • the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and • other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports filed by the registrants from time to time with the SEC. The registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. iv Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all the outstanding common stock of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the traditional operating companies is as follows: Alabama Power is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company and Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence since its incorporation in 1906. Georgia Power was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930, and admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948. Effective July 1, 2006, Savannah Electric, formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company, was merged with and into Georgia Power. Gulf Power is a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005. Mississippi Power was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924, and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23, 1924, and in Alabama on December 7, 1962. In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires and manages generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to do business in the States of Alabama, Florida and Georgia on January 10, 2001 and in the State of Mississippi on January 30, 2001. Southern Company also owns all the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Company Gas, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Telecom, Southern Holdings and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications services to the traditional operating companies and also markets these services to the public within the Southeast. Southern Nuclear provides services to Alabama Power’s and Georgia Power’s nuclear plants. SCS is the system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. Southern Telecom provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company’s investments in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680 kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO’s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts as SEGCO’s agent in the operation of SEGCO’s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its units. SEGCO also owns three 230,000 volt transmission lines extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power transmission line system. See Note 10 to the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Southern Company’s segment and related information. The registrants’ Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company’s internet address is www.southerncompany.com. I-1 Table of Contents The Southern Company System Traditional operating companies The transmission facilities of each of the traditional operating companies are connected to the respective company’s own generating plants and other sources of power and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional operating companies and SEGCO by means of heavy-duty high voltage lines. For information on Georgia Power’s integrated transmission system, see “Territory Served by the Utilities” herein for additional information. Operating contracts covering arrangements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity exchanges, capacity purchases and sales, transfers of economy energy and other similar transactions. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power Coordinating Group and TVA and with Progress Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency operations and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric Reliability Council. The IIC provides for coordinating operations of the power producing facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power and the capacities available to such companies from non-affiliated sources and for the pooling of surplus energy available for interchange. Coordinated operation of the entire interconnected system is conducted through a central power supply coordination office maintained by SCS. The available sources of energy are allocated to the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to provide the most economical sources of power consistent with reliable operation. The resulting benefits and savings are apportioned among each of the companies. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters – Intercompany Interchange Contract” of each of the registrants in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, all under “FERC Matters – Intercompany Interchange Contract” in Item 8 herein for information on the settlement of the FERC proceeding related to the IIC. Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO and other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon request, the following services: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Southern Power, SouthernLINC Wireless and Southern Telecom have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost. Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley and Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. See “Regulation – Atomic Energy Act of 1954” herein for additional information. Southern Power Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires and manages generating facilities and sells the output under long-term, fixed-price capacity contracts both to unaffiliated wholesale purchasers as well as to the traditional operating companies (under PPAs approved by the respective state PSCs). Southern Power’s business activities are not subject to traditional state regulation of utilities but are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation and electric transmission risks by making such risks the responsibility of the counterparties to the PPAs. However, Southern Power’s overall profit will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and its efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets. At December 31, 2006, Southern Power had 6,733 megawatts of nameplate capacity in commercial operation. Other Business In January 2006, Southern Company Gas sold substantially all of its assets, including natural gas inventory, accounts receivable and customer list to Gas South. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Southern Company Gas Sale” in Item 8 herein for additional information. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company’s investments in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. Southern Company’s interest in I-2 Table of Contents one of the synthetic fuel entities was terminated in 2006. Synthetic fuel tax credits will no longer be available after December 31, 2007. SouthernLINC Wireless serves Southern Company’s traditional operating companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet access and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 128,000 square miles in the Southeast. These continuing efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk. Construction Programs The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2007 through 2009, see Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Company, each traditional operating company and Southern Power all under “Construction Program” in Item 8 herein. Estimated construction costs in 2007 are expected to be apportioned approximately as follows: (in millions) Southern Company Alabama Georgia Gulf Mississippi Southern System* Power Power Power Power Power New generation $ 172 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 172 Environmental 1,661 505 955 171 21 - Other generating facilities, including associated plant substations 441 175 167 30 21 47 New business 406 159 201 29 17 - Transmission 447 104 293 11 28 - Joint line and substation 5 - - 5 - - Distribution 321 143 136 13 30 - Nuclear fuel 116 48 68 - - - General plant 342 84 103 19 29 22 $ 3,911 $ 1,218 $ 1,923 $ 278 $ 146 $ 241 *These amounts include the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in the table above) as well as the amounts for the other subsidiaries. See “Other Business” herein for additional information. The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; acquisition of additional generating assets; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; changes in existing nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; increasing costs of labor, equipment and materials; and cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. Under Georgia law, Georgia Power is required to file an IRP for approval by the Georgia PSC. Through the IRP process, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the construction of new power plants and new PPAs. See “Rate Matters – Integrated Resource Planning” herein for additional information. See “Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations” herein for additional information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power’s, Georgia Power’s and Southern Power’s joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities. Financing Programs See each of the registrant’s MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of Southern Company, each traditional operating company and Southern Power in Item 8 herein for information concerning financing programs. I-3 Table of Contents Fuel Supply The traditional operating companies’ and SEGCO’s supply of electricity is derived predominantly from coal. Southern Power’s supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. The sources of generation for the years 2004 through 2006 are shown below: Coal Nuclear Hydro Gas Oil % % % % % Alabama Power 2004 65 19 6 10 * 2005 67 19 6 8 * 2006 68 19 4 9 * Georgia Power 2004 76 22 2 * * 2005 75 18 2 4 1 2006 75 18 1 6 * Gulf Power 2004 84 ** ** 16 * 2005 86 ** ** 14 * 2006 87 ** ** 13 * Mississippi Power 2004 69 ** ** 31 * 2005 70 ** ** 30 * 2006 71 ** ** 29 * SEGCO 2004 100 ** ** * * 2005 100 ** ** * * 2006 100 ** ** * * Southern Power 2004 ** ** ** 100 * 2005 ** ** ** 100 * 2006 ** ** ** 100 * Southern Company system – weighted average 2004 69 16 3 12 * 2005 71 15 3 11 * 2006 70 15 2 13 * * Less than 0.5%.** Not applicable. For the traditional operating companies and SEGCO, the average costs of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour generated for 2004 through 2006 are shown below: 2004 2005 2006 Alabama Power 1.69 2.02 2.27 Georgia Power 1.58 2.12 2.39 Gulf Power 2.32 2.77 3.27 Mississippi Power 2.50 3.11 3.34 SEGCO 1.60 1.69 2.12 Southern Company system – weighted average 1.89 2.39 2.64 The traditional operating companies have long-term agreements in place from which they expect to receive approximately 89% of their coal burn requirements in 2007. These agreements cover remaining terms up to nine years. In 2006, the weighted average sulfur content of all coal burned by the traditional operating companies was 0.86% sulfur. This sulfur level, along with banked and purchased sulfur dioxide allowances, allowed the traditional operating companies to remain within limits set by the Phase II acid rain requirements of the Clean Air Act. In 2006, Southern Company purchased approximately $50.8 million of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission allowances to be used in current and future periods. As additional environmental regulations are proposed that impact the utilization of coal, the traditional operating companies’ fuel mix will be monitored to ensure that the traditional operating companies remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies will continue to evaluate the need to purchase additional emission allowances and the timing of capital expenditures for emission control equipment. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for information on the Clean Air Act. The Southern Company system has long-term agreements in place for its natural gas burn requirements. For 2007, the Southern Company system has contracted for 176 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply. These agreements cover remaining terms up to 12 years. In addition to gas supply, the Southern Company system has contracts in place for both firm gas transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural gas supplies, transportation and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company system’s natural gas generating units. Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel adjustment I-4 Table of Contents clauses contained in rate schedules. See “Rate Matters – Rate Structure” herein for additional information. Southern Power’s PPAs generally provide that the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel. Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most are short to medium term (less than 10 years). Management believes that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of the Southern Company system’s nuclear generating units. Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the DOE that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. At Plants Farley and Hatch, on-site dry storage facilities are operational and can be expanded to accommodate spent fuel through the life of each plant. Sufficient pool storage capacity for spent fuel is available at Plant Vogtle to maintain full-core discharge capability for both units into 2014. Construction of an on-site dry storage facility at Plant Vogtle is expected to begin in sufficient time to maintain pool full-core discharge capability. The Energy Act of 1992 established a Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants, including Alabama Power and Georgia Power. This assessment was paid over a 15-year period that ended in 2006. This fund will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The law provides that utilities will recover these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. See Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power and Georgia Power under “Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs” in Item 8 herein for additional information. Territory Served by the Utilities The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and an estimated population of approximately 11 million. Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such electricity at retail in over 1,000 communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa) and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power also supplies steam service in downtown Birmingham. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances. Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon and Rome), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG, Dalton and Hampton. This territory also includes the five-county area in eastern Georgia formerly served by Savannah Electric. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under “Merger” in Item 8 herein for information on the merger of Savannah Electric with and into Georgia Power. Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such electricity at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and a municipality. Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such energy within the 23 counties of southeastern Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative associations and one generating and transmitting cooperative. For information relating to kilowatt-hour sales by classification for the traditional operating companies, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for the Southern Company system, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, reference is made to Item 6 herein. I-5 Table of Contents A portion of the area served by the traditional operating companies adjoins the area served by TVA and its municipal and cooperative distributors. An Act of Congress limits the distribution of TVA power, unless otherwise authorized by Congress, to specified areas or customers which generally were those served on July 1, 1957. The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale. One of these organizations, AEC, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems and other customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. AEC owns generating units with approximately 1,776 megawatts of nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power’s Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. AEC’s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from AEC to the extent such energy is available. Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power’s service area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from AEC and SEPA (a federal power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power’s service area and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power. Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with AEC involving interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from AEC to certain distributing cooperatives in the service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf Power is governed by the Southern Company/AEC Network Transmission Service Agreement. The rates for this service to AEC are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power’s joint-ownership with AEC of a portion of Plant Miller. Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of protective capacity by Mississippi Power to SMEPA. There are 43 electric cooperative organizations operating in, or in areas adjoining, territory in the State of Georgia in which Georgia Power provides electric service at retail or wholesale. Three of these organizations obtain their power from TVA, one from Southern Power under a 15-year agreement which began in January 2005 and one from other sources. OPC has a wholesale power contract with the remaining 38 of these cooperative organizations. OPC and these cooperative organizations utilize self-owned generation, some of which is acquired and jointly-owned with Georgia Power, megawatt capacity purchases from Georgia Power under power supply agreements and other arrangements to meet their power supply obligations. Georgia Power, OPC and Georgia Systems Operations Corporation entered into a new control area compact agreement effective March 2005 which replaced previous coordination service agreements. In April 2006, AEC began purchasing 250 megawatts of capacity from Georgia Power for a 10-year term. In January 2005, 29 electric cooperative organizations served by OPC and one served by Southern Power began purchasing a total of 700 megawatts of capacity from Georgia Power under individual contracts for 10-year terms. Also, in January 2005, the electric cooperative served by Southern Power began purchasing 25 megawatts of peaking capacity from Georgia Power under a 10-year contract. This electric cooperative began purchasing 50 megawatts of coal-fired capacity from Georgia Power beginning on April 1, 2006 and ending on December 31, 2014 and will purchase another 75 megawatts of coal-fired capacity from Georgia Power beginning June 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2019. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. There are 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale. AMEA was organized under an act of the Alabama legislature and is comprised of 11 municipalities. In December 2001, Alabama Power entered into a power sales agreement with AMEA which began on January 1, 2006. Under this contract, AMEA supplies 70 to 95 megawatts of power from its combustion turbine plant and Alabama Power serves the remainder of its member needs through 2010. Beginning in 2011, the amount of power supplied to AMEA by Alabama Power is fixed at 2010 levels and AMEA has the option to seek other suppliers for its incremental growth needs through 2015, at which time the contract terminates. Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive their requirements through MEAG, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are acquired and jointly-owned with Georgia Power, power purchased from Georgia Power and purchases from other resources. In 1997, a pseudo scheduling and services agreement was implemented I-6 Table of Contents between Georgia Power and MEAG. Since 1977, Dalton has filled its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are acquired and jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power pursuant to their partial requirements tariff. Beginning January 1, 2003, Dalton entered into a power supply agreement with Georgia Power and Southern Power pursuant to which it will purchase 134 megawatts from Georgia Power and the balance of its requirements, net of self-owned generation, from Southern Power for a 15-year term. In addition, Georgia Power serves the full requirements of Hampton’s electric distribution system under a market-based contract. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission Corporation (formerly OPC’s transmission division), MEAG and Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of each. The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Power Sales Agreements” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for information concerning its PPAs. SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA providing for the use of the traditional operating companies’ facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects. The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein (451 municipalities, including Atlanta, Columbus, Macon, Augusta, Athens, Rome and Valdosta, to Georgia Power; 115 to electric cooperatives; and 50 to publicly-owned systems). Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 kilowatts may receive electric service from the supplier of its choice. See “Competition” herein for additional information. Under the provisions of its franchises and concessions and the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act, and pursuant to the merger with Savannah Electric, Georgia Power now has the full but nonexclusive right to serve the City of Savannah, the Towns of Bloomingdale, Pooler, Garden City, Guyton, Newington, Oliver, Port Wentworth, Rincon, Tybee Island, Springfield, Thunderbolt and Vernonburg, and in conjunction with a secondary supplier, the Town of Richmond Hill. In addition, Savannah Electric was assigned certain unincorporated areas in Chatham, Effingham, Bryan, Bulloch and Screven Counties by the Georgia PSC. In connection with the merger of Savannah Electric with and into Georgia Power, the Georgia PSC approved the transfer of Savannah Electric’s service territory to Georgia Power at the effective time of merger. See “Competition” herein for additional information. Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued “Grandfather Certificates” of public convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The six cooperatives serve approximately 375,000 retail customers in a certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a “Grandfather Certificate,” the utility holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC. Competition The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Act of 1992. The Energy Act of 1992 allowed IPPs to access a utility’s transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities. Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with 10 industrial customers. Under the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess I-7 Table of Contents generation of such companies. During 2006, Alabama Power purchased approximately 78 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $3.9 million. Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with 10 small power producers whereby Georgia Power purchases their excess generation. During 2006, Georgia Power purchased 11 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $2.4 million. Georgia Power has PPAs for electricity with two cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. During 2006, Georgia Power purchased 356 million kilowatt-hours at a cost of $70.6 million from these facilities. Also during 2006, pursuant to the merger with Savannah Electric, Georgia Power purchased energy from seven customer-owned generating facilities. Six of the seven customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These six customers make no capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract with the remaining customer for eight megawatts of dispatchable capacity and energy. During 2006, Georgia Power purchased a total of 48.6 million kilowatt-hours from the seven suppliers at a cost of approximately $1.9 million. Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial and qualifying facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases “as available” energy from customer-owned generation. During 2006, Gulf Power purchased 9.3 million kilowatt-hours from such companies for approximately $0.5 million. Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation. During 2006, this customer had no excess generation. The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political and environmental considerations, taxation and supply. Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees as the result of self-generation (as described above) and fuel switching by customers and other factors. See also “Territory Served by the Utilities” herein for additional information concerning suppliers of electricity operating within or near the areas served at retail by the traditional operating companies. Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs and others for wholesale energy sales in the Southeastern United States wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power’s success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and availability of Southern Power’s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price and Southern Power’s ability to contain costs. Seasonality Electric power generation is a seasonal business. At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Regulation State Commissions The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs, which have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the Mississippi PSC) and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail service territories. See “Territory Served by the Utilities” and “Rate Matters” herein for additional information. Federal Power Act In July 2005, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Act of 2005 which repealed the Holding Company Act effective February 8, 2006. The traditional operating companies, Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore remain subject to the rate, financial and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. Certain financing approvals which would have been obtained from the SEC under the repealed Holding Company Act now must be obtained from the FERC. In implementing repeal of the Holding Company Act, the FERC sought to minimize unnecessary administrative burdens and decided to retain an “at cost standard” for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS, to permit certain existing financing authorizations to remain effective without further action by the FERC and to reduce reporting requirements. In addition to its repeal of the Holding I-8 Table of Contents Company Act, the Energy Act of 2005 authorized the FERC to establish regional reliability organizations authorized to enforce reliability standards, established a process for the FERC to address impediments to the construction of transmission and established clear responsibility for the FERC to prohibit manipulative energy trading practices. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 kilowatts and 18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,074,696 kilowatts. In 2003, Georgia Power started the relicensing process for the Morgan Falls project which is located on the Chattahoochee River near Atlanta, Georgia and submitted the final license application for this facility to the FERC in February 2007. The current license for the Morgan Falls project expires in 2009. In 2007, Georgia Power expects to begin the relicensing process for Bartlett’s Ferry which is located on the Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett’s Ferry license expires in 2014 and the application for a new license is expected to be submitted to the FERC in 2012. In July 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for its seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC licenses for all of these nine developments expire in July and August of 2007. In 2006, Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Martin hydroelectric project located on the Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire in 2013 and the application for a new license is expected to be filed with the FERC in 2011. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters – Hydro Relicensing” of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein for additional information. Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information. Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2013-2033 in the case of Alabama Power’s projects and in the period 2014-2039 in the case of Georgia Power’s projects. Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property taken. If the FERC does not act on the new license application prior to the expiration of the existing license, the FERC is required to issue annual licenses, under the same terms and conditions of the existing license, until a new license is issued. Atomic Energy Act of 1954 Alabama Power, Georgia Power and Southern Nuclear are subject to the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, which vests jurisdiction in the NRC over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, particularly with regard to certain public health and safety and antitrust matters. The National Environmental Policy Act has been construed to expand the jurisdiction of the NRC to consider the environmental impact of a facility licensed under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. The NRC operating licenses for Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 currently expire in January 2027 and February 2029, respectively. In January 2002, the NRC granted Georgia Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units at Plant Hatch which permits the operation of units 1 and 2 until 2034 and 2038, respectively. Georgia Power plans to file an application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the licenses for Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. In May 2005, the NRC granted Alabama Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units at Plant Farley which permits operation of units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively. See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance. FERC Matters See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters” of each of the registrants in Item 7 herein for information on matters regarding the FERC. I-9 Table of Contents Environmental Statutes and Regulations Southern Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air, water and land resources. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions. There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered. Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company and SEGCO. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Environmental Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Additionally, each traditional operating company and SEGCO has incurred costs for environmental remediation of various sites. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulation – Environmental Remediation” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for information regarding environmental remediation efforts. Also, see Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Georgia Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power under “Environmental Matters – Environmental Remediation” in Item 8 herein for information regarding the identification of sites that may require environmental remediation. The traditional operating companies, Southern Power and SEGCO are unable to predict at this time what additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the implementation of existing or future quality control requirements for air, water and hazardous or toxic materials, but such steps could adversely affect system operations and result in substantial additional costs. The outcome of the matters mentioned above under “Regulation” cannot now be determined, except that these developments may result in delays in obtaining appropriate licenses for generating facilities, increased construction and operating costs or reduced generation, the nature and extent of which, while not determinable at this time, could be substantial. Rate Matters Rate Structure The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges. Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers’ rates are generally based upon usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval. Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions at the traditional operating companies. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Gulf Power’s and Mississippi Power’s fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted annually to reflect increases or decreases in such costs. Georgia Power is currently required to file for an adjustment to its fuel cost recovery rate no later than March 1, 2008. Alabama Power’s fuel clause is adjusted as required. Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates. Approved environmental compliance and storm damage costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power through cost recovery provisions approved by their respective state PSCs. Within limits approved by their respective PSCs, these rates are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as required. Alabama Power recovers the cost of new plant and Gulf Power recovers purchased power capacity and conservation costs through cost recovery provisions which are adjusted as required to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Georgia Power continues to recover environmental compliance, storm damage and new plant costs through its base rates. Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “PSC Matters” of Southern Company and each of the I-10 Table of Contents traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters” and “Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters” and Note 3 to the financial statements of each of the traditional operating companies under “Retail Regulatory Matters” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters. Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs and environmental compliance costs through rates. Southern Power is authorized by the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates at market-based prices and to make short-term opportunity sales at market rates. Special FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters – Market-Based Rate Authority” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Power under “FERC Matters – Market-Based Rate Authority” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters. Integrated Resource Planning Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC must certify any new demand-side or supply-side resources. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and purchased power costs will be recoverable through rates. In December 2002, the Georgia PSC certified a PPA between Duke Energy and Georgia Power for 620 megawatts for seven years that began in June 2005. K-Gen Power, LLC has replaced Duke Energy as a party to this contract. In May 2004, the Georgia PSC ordered Georgia Power and Savannah Electric to purchase the McIntosh combined cycle generating facility from Southern Power and place it into their respective rate bases. The McIntosh resource was previously certified as a PPA by the Georgia PSC in the supply-side certification conducted in 2002 and, at the same time, the Georgia PSC also approved the de-certification of Savannah Electric’s Plant Riverside, units 4 through 8, effective in May 2005. The McIntosh units produce a combined 1,240 megawatts and have been available since June 2005. Pursuant to the merger with Savannah Electric, Georgia Power now has 100% ownership of the McIntosh units. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under “Retail Regulatory Matters – Rate Plans” in Item 8 herein for additional information. Following the Georgia PSC’s approval of the 2004 IRP, Georgia Power de-certified the Atkinson combustion turbine units 5A and 5B totaling approximately 80 megawatts of capacity and extended the life of the Kraft combustion turbine unit until such time as its retirement is warranted. Georgia Power received certification of its RFP for approximately 1,000 megawatts to meet its future supply-side capacity needs for 2009 and beyond. In January 2006, Georgia Power filed an application with the Georgia PSC to approve an amendment to Georgia Power’s IRP in connection with the merger to add Savannah Electric customers and generating assets. In June 2006, the Georgia PSC approved the merger between Georgia Power and Savannah Electric. Also, the Georgia PSC approved the transfer of territory, customers, power plants and demand-side programs from Savannah Electric to Georgia Power. In March 2006, Georgia Power issued RFPs for approximately 2,100 and 1,400 megawatts, respectively, to meet its 2010 and 2011 supply-side needs. For the 2011 RFP, Georgia Power submitted self-build proposals that compare to the market. Additionally, Georgia Power will continue a residential load management program which was certified by the Georgia PSC for up to 40 megawatts of equivalent supply-side capacity. Georgia Power will continue to utilize approximately eight megawatts of capacity from existing qualifying facilities under firm contracts and continue to add additional resources as ordered by the Georgia PSC. On January 31, 2007, Georgia Power filed its 2007 IRP with the Georgia PSC. With the 2007 IRP and subsequent filings, Georgia Power proposes to: (1) retire the coal units at Plant McDonough and replace them with combined-cycle natural gas units; (2) gain approval for five new energy efficiency pilot programs and request that certified demand-side management programs receive similar financial treatment as supply-side options; (3) pursue up to three new renewable generation projects with a Georgia Power ownership interest; (4) establish new nuclear units as a preferred option to meet demand in the 2015/2016 timeframe; and (5) establish policy that baseload generating plants should be built by Georgia Power and should not be subject to the competitive bid process. The Georgia PSC decision on this 2007 IRP filing is expected in July 2007. Environmental Cost Recovery Plans See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “PSC Matters – Alabama Power” and “PSC Matters – Retail Rate Adjustments,” respectively, of Southern Company and Alabama Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 I-11 Table of Contents to the financial statements of Southern Company and Alabama Power, under “Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters” and “Retail Regulatory Matters,” respectively, in Item 8 herein for a discussion on Alabama PSC rate matters. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Gulf Power under “Retail Regulatory Matters – Environmental Cost Recovery” in Item 8 herein for information on Gulf Power’s environmental cost recovery. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “PSC Matters – Environmental Compliance Overview Plan” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Mississippi Power under “Retail Regulatory Matters – Environmental Compliance Overview Plan” in Item 8 herein for information on Mississippi Power’s environmental cost recovery. Storm Damage Cost Recovery See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “PSC Matters – Storm Damage Cost Recovery” of Southern Company, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power and “PSC Matters – Natural Disaster Cost Recovery” of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power under “Storm Damage Cost Recovery,” “Retail Regulatory Matters – Natural Disaster Cost Recovery,” “Retail Regulatory Matters – Storm Damage Cost Recovery” and “Retail Regulatory Matters – Storm Damage Cost Recovery,” respectively, in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the impacts and recovery of storm damage costs related to Hurricanes Ivan, Dennis and Katrina. Employee Relations The Southern Company system had a total of 26,091 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2006. Employees at December 31, 2006 Alabama Power 6,796 Georgia Power 9,278 Gulf Power 1,321 Mississippi Power 1,270 SCS 3,737 Southern Holdings* 4 Southern Nuclear 3,216 Southern Power ** Other 469 Total 26,091 * One of Southern Holdings’ subsidiaries has 4 employees. Southern Holdings has agreements with SCS whereby all other employee services are rendered at cost. ** Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at cost. The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance and construction employees. Alabama Power has agreements with the IBEW on a five-year contract extending to August 15, 2009. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date. Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 2008. Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through October 14, 2009. Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW extending the previous contract for one year to August 16, 2007. Negotiations are expected to begin in July 2007 on a new four-year agreement. Southern Nuclear has agreements with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to June 30, 2008 for Plants Hatch and Vogtle and a three-year contract which is in effect through August 15, 2009 for Plant Farley. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to these dates, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such dates. The agreements also subject the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from I-12 Table of Contents those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries. Risks Related to the Energy Industry Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear generating facilities. For example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by Southern Power must be approved by the FERC. In addition, the respective state PSCs must approve the traditional operating companies’ rates for retail customers. While the retail rates approved by the respective state PSCs are designed to provide for recovery of costs and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state PSC will not deem certain costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery. Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. Changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of Southern Company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. General Risks Related to Operation of Southern Company’s Utility Subsidiaries The regional power market in which Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. The traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. Transmission revenues are not separated from generation and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. Since 1999, when the FERC issued final rules on RTOs, there have been a number of proceedings at FERC designed to encourage further voluntary formation of RTOs or to mandate their formation. Under this new transmission regulatory structure, the traditional operating companies could transfer functional control (but not ownership) of their transmission facilities to an independent third party. While there are no active proceedings at FERC that would require Southern Company to participate in a RTO, current FERC efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things, market power by vertically integrated utilities. The financial condition, net income and cash flows of Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. Certain events in the energy markets that are beyond the control of Southern Company and its subsidiaries have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy industry and in the capital markets. The reaction to these events may result in new laws or regulations related to the business operations or the accounting treatment of the existing operations of Southern Company and its subsidiaries which could have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of Southern Company and its subsidiaries. As a result of the energy crisis in California during the summer of 2001, the Enron Corporation bankruptcy, investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities and the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast, companies in regulated and unregulated electric utility businesses have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny with respect to, among other things, accounting practices, financial disclosures and relationships with independent auditors. This increased scrutiny has led to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including, among others, enhanced internal control and auditor independence requirements, financial statement certification requirements, more frequent SEC reviews of financial statements and accelerated and additional SEC filing requirements. New accounting and disclosure requirements have changed the way Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Southern Company expects continued regulatory focus on accounting and financial reporting issues. Future I-13 Table of Contents disruptions in the industry such as those described above and any additional resulting regulations may have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of Southern Company and the traditional operating companies and the value of their respective assets. Increased competition, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on Southern Company and its traditional operating companies. Increased competition could result in increased pressure to lower the cost of electricity. Any adoption in the territories served by the traditional operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant adverse financial impact on Southern Company and the traditional operating companies due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an inability to recover reasonable costs or increased costs of capital. Southern Company and the traditional operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can Southern Company and the traditional operating companies predict the impact of these changes. Additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition at the wholesale level. As a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, IPPs, wholesale power marketers and brokers and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. In addition, FERC rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. Potential changes to the criteria used by the FERC for approval of market-based contracts may negatively impact the traditional operating companies’ and Southern Power’s ability to charge market-based rates. Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have authorization from the FERC to sell power to nonaffiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based sale to an affiliate. In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company’s generation dominance within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an issue in that proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern Company in Southern Company’s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period beginning February 27, 2005 could be subject to refund to the level of the default cost-based rates, pending the outcome of the proceeding. Such sales through May 27, 2006, the end of the refund period were approximately $19.7 million for the Southern Company system. In the event that FERC’s default mitigation measures for entities that are found to have market power are ultimately applied, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may be required to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates. In addition, in May 2005 the FERC started an investigation to determine whether Southern Company satisfies the other three parts of FERC’s market-based rate analysis: transmission market power, barriers to entry and affiliate abuse or reciprocal dealing. The FERC established a new 15-month refund period related to this expanded investigation. Any new market-based rate sales involving any Southern Company subsidiary could be subject to refund to the extent the FERC orders lower rates as a result of this new investigation. Such sales through October 19, 2006, the end of the refund period, were approximately $55.4 million for the Southern Company system, of which $15.5 million relates to sales inside the retail service territory discussed above. Risks Related to Environmental Regulation Southern Company’s and the traditional operating companies’ costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income and cash flows of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power. Southern Company and the traditional operating companies are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. Compliance with these legal requirements requires Southern Company and the traditional operating companies to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of their respective facilities. These expenditures are significant and Southern Company and the traditional operating companies expect that they will increase in the future. Through 2006, Southern Company had invested approximately $3.1 billion in capital projects I-14 Table of Contents to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $661 million, $423 million and $300 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Southern Company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new regulations will be an additional $1.66 billion, $1.65 billion and $1.27 billion for 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Because Southern Company’s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and Southern Company’s fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. If Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. The EPA has filed civil actions against Alabama Power and Georgia Power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Southern Company is a party to suits alleging its emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. An adverse outcome in any one of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require the payment of substantial penalties. This could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power or increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power. The cost impact of such legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. Risks Related to Southern Company and its Business Southern Company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to Southern Company. Southern Company is a holding company and, as such, Southern Company has no operations of its own. Substantially all of Southern Company’s consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. Southern Company’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to Southern Company. Prior to funding Southern Company, Southern Company’s subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. Southern Company’s subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide Southern Company with funds for its payment obligations. The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if its subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities. Southern Company’s financial performance depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries’ electric generating, transmission and distribution facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks, including: • operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; • operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; • labor disputes; • terrorist attacks; • fuel or material supply interruptions; • compliance with mandatory reliability standards if adopted; and • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza or other similar occurrences. A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by the electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power depend in I-15 Table of Contents part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to one of these PPAs to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the PPAs, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Most of Southern Power’s generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under PPAs having initial terms of five to 15 years. In addition, the traditional operating companies enter into PPAs with non-affiliated parties. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these PPAs. Even though Southern Power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. Neither Southern Power nor the traditional operating companies can predict whether the PPAs will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. If a PPA is not renewed, a replacement PPA cannot be assured. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or environmental facilities and may not be able to recover their investment. The facilities of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power require ongoing capital expenditures. Certain of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. Southern Company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities and adding environmental control equipment. The completion of these types of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: • shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and labor; • work stoppages; • permits, approvals and other regulatory matters; • adverse weather conditions; • unforeseen engineering problems; • environmental and geological conditions; • delays or increased costs to interconnect its facilities to transmission grids; • unanticipated cost increases; and • attention to other projects. Tightening labor markets in the Southeast and increasing costs of materials have resulted in increasing cost estimates for Southern Company’s subsidiaries’ construction projects. If a traditional operating company or Southern Power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility. In addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs and reduced net income. Once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. Significant portions of the traditional operating companies’ existing facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide reliable operations. Changes in technology may make Southern Company’s electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and Southern Power less competitive. A key element of the business model of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power is that generating power at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at relatively low cost. There are other technologies that produce power, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and solar cells. It is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central power station electric production. If this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power. Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and financial risks that could result in fines or the I-16 Table of Contents closure of Southern Company’s nuclear units owned by Alabama Power or Georgia Power, and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. Alabama Power owns two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for operation of, four nuclear units. These six units are operated by Southern Nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 9.1%, of Southern Company’s generation capacity as of December 31, 2006. These nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. Alabama Power and Georgia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. NRC orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition, although Alabama Power, Georgia Power and Southern Company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to Alabama Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. In addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. The generation and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce Southern Company’s, the traditional operating companies’ and Southern Power’s revenues and increase costs. The generation and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power receive from the sale of power. The market prices for these commodities may fluctuate over relatively short periods of time. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies’ fuel cost recovery clauses or through PPAs. Among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: • prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; • demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; • liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; • weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; • seasonality; • transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; • availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; • forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company system, its competitors or third party providers; • the financial condition of market participants; • the economy in the service territory and in general, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity; • natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events; and • federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company. For the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. Other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company. As a result of increasing fuel costs, the traditional operating companies have accrued significant I-17 Table of Contents underrecovered fuel cost balances. In addition, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power have significant deficit balances in their storm cost recovery reserves as a result of Hurricanes Ivan, Dennis and Katrina. The traditional operating companies may experience similar deficit balances following future storms. While the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective PSCs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating companies and Southern Company. The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage their commodity and financial market risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. Southern Company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. The traditional operating companies and Southern Power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majuere events or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company. The traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. Each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. In addition, Southern Power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. Natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed. For example, in connection with the 2005 hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, production and distribution of natural gas was limited for a period of time, resulting in shortages and significant increases in the price of natural gas. In addition, world market conditions for fuels, including the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, can impact the price and availability of natural gas. Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. Through the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, Southern Company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed Southern Company’s available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or Southern Power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. Because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies’ recovery in customers’ rates. Under Southern Power’s long-term fixed price PPAs, Southern Power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the I-18 Table of Contents affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company. The operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Mirant and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation have filed a claim against Southern Company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by Mirant to Southern Company prior to the Mirant spin-off. In July 2003, Mirant filed for voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In January 2006, Mirant’s plan of reorganization became effective, and Mirant emerged from bankruptcy. In 2005, Mirant, as debtor in possession, and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation filed a complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, which was amended in July 2005, February 2006 and May 2006. The third amended complaint (the complaint) alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the spin-off. The complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from Southern Company to Mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. The complaint further alleges that Southern Company is liable to Mirant’s creditors for the full amount of Mirant’s liability and that Southern Company breached its fiduciary duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant to breach fiduciary duties to its creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant’s directors and officers. The complaint also seeks recoveries under theories of restitution, unjust enrichment, and alter ego. The complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs. Finally, the complaint includes an objection to Southern Company’s pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy Court (which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein) and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company’s claims to the claims of all other creditors. Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in June 2006. On January 10, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas granted Southern Company’s motion to withdraw this action from the Bankruptcy Court and, on February 15, 2006, granted Southern Company’s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. On May 19, 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts of the complaint. On December 11, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and denied in part the motion. As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims are barred; all other claims in the complaint may proceed. Southern Company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in this action. However, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. IRS challenges to Southern Company’s income tax deductions taken in connection with four international leveraged lease transactions could result in the payment of substantial additional interest and penalties and could materially impact Southern Company’s cash flow and net income. Southern Company participates in four international leveraged lease transactions and receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on related debt. In connection with its audit of Southern Company’s tax returns for 1996 through 2001, the IRS proposed to disallow Southern Company’s tax losses related to one international leveraged lease (a lease-in-lease-out, or LILO) transaction. In February 2005, Southern Company reached a negotiated settlement with the IRS relating to this matter, which is now final. In connection with its audit of 2000 and 2001, the IRS also challenged Southern Company’s deductions related to three other international lease (sale-in-lease-out, or SILO) transactions. In the third quarter 2006, Southern Company paid the full amount of the disputed tax and the applicable interest on the SILO issue for tax years 2000-2001 and filed a claim for refund which has been denied by the IRS. The disputed tax amount is $79 million and the related interest is approximately $24 million for these tax years. This payment, and the subsequent IRS disallowance of the refund claim, closed the issue with I-19 Table of Contents the IRS and Southern Company plans to proceed with litigation. The IRS has also raised the SILO issues for tax years 2002 and 2003. The estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for these years is approximately $83 million and $15 million, respectively. The tax and interest for these tax years was paid to the IRS in the fourth quarter 2006. Southern Company has accounted for both payments in 2006 as deposits, as management believes no additional tax or interest liabilities have been incurred. Although the payment of the tax liability did not affect Southern Company’s results of operations under accounting standards in effect through December 31, 2006, it did impact cash flow. For tax years 2000 through 2006, Southern Company has claimed $284 million in tax benefits related to these SILO transactions challenged by the IRS. Southern Company believes these transactions are valid leases for U.S. tax purposes and thus the related deductions are allowable. Southern Company will continue to defend this position through administrative appeals or litigation. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. In July 2006, the FASB released new interpretations for the accounting for both leveraged leases and uncertain tax positions that were adopted January 1, 2007. For the LILO transaction settled with the IRS in February 2005, the leveraged leases accounting interpretation requires that Southern Company recognize a cumulative effect reduction to beginning 2007 retained earnings of approximately $17 million at adoption and change the timing of income recognized under the lease. For the SILO transactions which are the subject of pending litigation, Southern Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the new interpretations but estimates that the reduction to retained earnings in 2007 could be approximately $115 million to $135 million. The impact on Southern Company’s net income of these accounting interpretations would also be dependent on the outcome of the pending litigation or changes in assumptions related to uncertain tax positions but could be significant and potentially material. Risks Related to Market and Economic Volatility The business of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power is dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. The inability of Southern Company, any traditional operating company or Southern Power to access capital may limit its ability to execute its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power may otherwise rely on for future growth. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. If Southern Company, any traditional operating company or Southern Power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power may otherwise rely on for future growth will be limited. Each of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the credit rating of Southern Company, any traditional operating company or Southern Power may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements. Such disruptions could include: • an economic downturn; • the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; • capital market conditions generally; • market prices for electricity and gas; • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Southern Company’s facilities or unrelated energy companies; • war or threat of war; or • the overall health of the utility industry. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, including their ability to obtain insurance, the financial stability of their respective customers and their ability to raise capital. The threat of terrorism and the related military action by the United States continue to affect the nation’s economy and financial markets. The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these events as well as recent hurricane activity on the Gulf Coast. The availability of insurance covering risks Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. Any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could constrain the capital available to Southern Company’s, the traditional operating companies’ and Southern Power’s industry and could reduce access to funding for the respective operations of Southern I-20 Table of Contents Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, as well as the financial stability of their respective customers and counterparties. These factors could adversely affect Southern Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to achieve energy sales growth, thereby decreasing Southern Company’s level of future net income. Certain of the traditional operating companies have substantial investments in the Gulf Coast region which can be subject to major storm activity. The ability of the traditional operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory action. Additionally, storm damage may affect the availability and cost of insurance to these traditional operating companies. Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. In September 2004, Hurricane Ivan hit the Gulf coast of Florida and Alabama, causing significant damage to the service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf Power. In July and August 2005, Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively, hit the Gulf coast of the United States and caused significant damage in the service areas of Gulf Power, Alabama Power and Mississippi Power. In each case, costs to the respective traditional operating companies exceeded their respective storm cost reserves and insurance coverage and were subsequently approved for recovery by their respective state PSCs. In the event a traditional operating company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state PSC. While the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state PSC or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company’s results of operations and/or cash flows. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. I-21 Table of Contents 