Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS AFFECTING BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks impact our business, the market price of our shares of common stock and other securities could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. In addition, the following risk factors and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements, whether made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the other documents we file with the SEC, or in our annual or quarterly reports to shareholders, future press releases, or orally, whether in presentations, responses to questions or otherwise. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which is highly cyclical and suffers significant downturns in demand resulting in excess manufacturing capacity and increased price competition. The electronics industry, on which a substantial portion of our business depends, is cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices and over-capacity. This industry has experienced periods characterized by relatively low demand and price depression and is likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. Economic conditions affecting the electronics industry in general, or specific customers in particular, have adversely affected our operating results in the past and may do so in the future. The electronics industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, relatively short product life cycles and pricing and profitability pressures. These factors adversely affect our customers and we suffer similar effects. Our customers are primarily high-technology equipment manufacturers in the communications and networking, computing and peripherals, test, industrial and medical, defense and aerospace and automotive markets of the electronics industry. Due to the uncertainty in the markets served by most of our customers, we cannot accurately predict our future financial results or accurately anticipate future orders. At any time, our customers can discontinue or modify products containing components manufactured by us, adjust the timing of orders and shipments or affect our mix of consolidated net sales generated from quick-turn and premium services revenues versus standard lead time production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competition in the printed circuit board market is intense and we could lose sales if we are unable to compete effectively. The market for PCBs is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist, which could result in continued reductions in pricing and profitability and loss of market share. We believe our major competitors are U.S., Asian and other international independent manufacturers of multi-layer printed circuit boards, backplanes and other electronic assemblies. Those competitors include Daeduck Electronics Co., DDi Corp., Elec and Eltek., Meadville Holdings, Ltd., LG Electronics, Multek Corporation (a division of Flextronics International Ltd.), Sanmina-SCI Corporation, TTM Technologies, Inc., WUS Printed Circuits Company Ltd., ViaSystems, Inc and Ibiden Co., Ltd. 10 Table of Contents Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of advantages over us, including: • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources; • preferred vendor status with some of our existing and potential customers; • more focused production facilities that may allow them to produce and sell products at lower price points; • more capital; and • larger customer bases. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, be more successful in entering or adapting to existing or new end markets, adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Consolidation in the PCB industry, which we expect to continue, could result in an increasing number of larger PCB companies with greater market power and resources. Such consolidation could in turn increase price competition and result in other competitive pressures for us. We must continually develop improved manufacturing processes to meet our customers’ needs for complex, high-technology products, and our basic interconnect technology is generally not subject to significant proprietary protection. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases and we are unable to respond effectively. Other considerations that affect our ability to compete include providing manufacturing services that are competitively priced, providing continually evolving technical capabilities, having competitive lead times and meeting specified delivery dates. Currently, most of our North American operations have lead times that extend beyond what is generally competitive in the market. Also, during the latter half of fiscal 2008 our on-time delivery was adversely affected by the Wood Village facility closure. During this period, our lead times at our Forest Grove facility increased to between 10 to 14 weeks and were believed to be uncompetitive in the North American market. This is likely to have resulted in lost orders or lower customer demand in future quarters. Our lead times have improved and are more competitive today, which should improve our fulfillment of customer expectations. It is uncertain how quickly we will be able to restore the full confidence of our customer base and what long-term affects these actions have had on future demand for our products. During recessionary periods in the electronics industry, our competitive advantages in providing an integrated manufacturing solution and responsive customer service may be less important to our customers than they are in more favorable economic climates. If competitive production capabilities increase in Asia, where production costs are lower, we may lose market share in both North America and Asia and our profitability may be materially adversely affected by increased pricing pressure. PCB manufacturers in Asia and other geographies often have significantly lower production costs than our North American operations and may even have cost advantages over Merix Asia. Production capability improvements by foreign and domestic competitors may play an increasing role in the PCB markets in which we compete, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. While PCB manufacturers in these locations have historically competed primarily in markets for less technologically advanced products, they are expanding their manufacturing capabilities to produce higher layer count, higher technology PCBs and could compete more directly with our North American operations. If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change and process development, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continual implementation of new production processes. The success of our business depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to manufacture products that meet changing customer needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost- 11 Table of Contents effective and timely basis. In addition, the PCB industry could encounter competition from new or revised manufacturing and production technologies that render existing manufacturing and production technology less competitive or obsolete. We may not be able to respond effectively to the technological requirements of the changing market. If we need new technologies and equipment to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of those technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. We may not be able to raise the necessary additional funds at all or as rapidly as necessary to respond to technological changes as quickly as our competitors. During periods of excess global PCB manufacturing capacity, our profitability may decrease and/or we may have to incur additional restructuring charges if we choose to reduce the capacity of or close any of our facilities. A significant portion of our factory costs of sales and operating expenses are relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders. When we experience excess capacity, our sales revenues may not fully cover our fixed overhead expenses, and our gross margins will fall. In addition, we generally schedule our quick-turn production facilities at less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to unexpected additional quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we may forego some production and could experience continued excess capacity. If we conclude we have significant, long-term excess capacity, we may decide to permanently close one or more of our facilities, and lay off some of our employees. Closures or lay-offs could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance, other exit costs, and asset impairments. Damage to our manufacturing facilities or information systems due to fire, natural disaster, or other events could harm our financial results. We have U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities in Oregon, California and China. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, act of war or terrorism, or blizzard, flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, or other natural disaster could harm us financially, increasing our costs of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. Additionally, we rely heavily upon information technology systems and high-technology equipment in our manufacturing processes and the management of our business. We have developed disaster recovery plans; however, disruption of these technologies as a result of natural disaster or other events could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our consolidated net sales and our consolidated net sales could decline significantly if we lose a major customer or if a major customer orders fewer of our products or cancels or delays orders. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our consolidated net sales from a limited number of customers. Our five largest OEM customers, which vary from period to period, comprised 36% and 37% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net sales to two customers individually represented 11% and 10% of consolidated net sales during fiscal 2008. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our consolidated net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or decline in, orders or backlog from one or more major customers could reduce our consolidated net sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, as part of our plan to improve the profitability of our North American operations we aim to reduce our reliance on certain customers and certain products that have historically generated significant revenues for Merix. We anticipate retaining a meaningful portion of this business, but there can be no assurance we will be successful. An unplanned loss of a large portion of this revenue could adversely affect our financial results. Some of our customers are relatively small companies, and our future business with them may be significantly affected by their ability to continue to obtain financing. If they are unable to obtain adequate 12 Table of Contents financing, they will not be able to purchase products, which, in the aggregate, would adversely affect our consolidated net sales. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and also as a result of a concentration of our customer base. Most of our sales are on an “open credit” basis, with standard industry payment terms. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting open credit arrangements, seek to limit open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. During periods of economic downturn in the global economy and the electronics and automotive industries, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, those programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. In total, five entities represented approximately 48% of the consolidated net trade accounts receivable balance at May 31, 2008, individually ranging from approximately 5% to approximately 18%. Our OEM customers direct our sales to a relatively limited number of electronic manufacturing service providers. Our contractual relationship is typically with the electronic manufacturing service providers, who are obligated to pay us for our products. Because we expect our OEM customers to continue to direct our sales to electronic manufacturing service providers, we expect to continue to be subject to the credit risk of a limited number of customers. This concentration of customers exposes us to increased credit risks. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay us, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Because we do not generally have long-term contracts with our customers, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our customers, which could decrease consolidated net sales and negatively affect our operating results. We generally do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and, consequently, our consolidated net sales are subject to short-term variability in demand by our customers. Customers generally have no obligation to order from us and may cancel, reduce or delay orders for a variety of reasons. The level and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to: • fluctuation in demand for our customers’ products; • changes in customers’ manufacturing strategies, such as a decision by a customer to either diversify or consolidate the number of PCB manufacturers used; • customers’ inventory management; • our own operational performance, such as missed delivery dates and repeated rescheduling; and • changes in new product introductions. We have experienced terminations, reductions and delays in our customers’ orders. Future terminations, reductions or delays in our customers’ orders could lower our production asset utilization, which would lower our gross profits, decrease our consolidated net sales and negatively affect our business and results of operations. The increasing prominence of EMS providers in the PCB industry could reduce our gross margins, potential sales, and customers. Sales to EMS providers represented approximately 55% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. Sales to EMS providers include sales directed by OEMs as well as orders placed with us at the EMS providers’ discretion. EMS providers source on a global basis to a greater extent than OEMs. The growth and concentration of EMS providers increases the purchasing power of such providers and could result in increased price competition or the loss of existing OEM customers. In addition, some EMS providers, including some of our customers, have the ability to directly manufacture PCBs within their own businesses. If a significant number of our other EMS customers were to acquire these abilities, our customer base might shrink, and our sales might decline substantially. Moreover, if any of our OEM 13 Table of Contents customers outsource the production of PCBs to these EMS providers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Automotive customers have higher quality requirements and long qualification times and, if we do not meet these requirements, our business could be materially adversely affected. For safety reasons, our automotive customers have strict quality standards that generally exceed the quality requirements of our other customers. Because a significant portion of Merix Asia’s products are sold to customers in the automotive industry, if our manufacturing facilities in Asia do not meet these quality standards, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. These automotive customers may require long periods of time to evaluate whether our manufacturing processes and facilities meet their quality standards. If we were to lose automotive customers due to quality control issues, we might not be able to regain those customers, or gain new automotive customers, for long periods of time, which could significantly decrease our consolidated net sales and profitability. The cyclical nature of automotive production and sales could adversely affect Merix’ business. A significant portion of Merix Asia’s products are sold to customers in the automotive industry. As a result, Merix Asia’s results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by market conditions in the automotive industry. Automotive production and sales are cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. In addition, automotive production and sales can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. Any significant economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production and sales by Merix Asia’s customers could have a material adverse effect on Merix’ business, results of operations and financial condition. Products we manufacture may contain manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand for our products and liability claims against us. We manufacture highly complex products to our customers’ specifications. These products may contain manufacturing errors or failures despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts. Further, our technology expansion efforts including the major expansion in our Huiyang factory increase the risk related to unanticipated yield issues, as well as to uncertainties related to future warranty claims. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or materials failure or error, may result in delayed shipments, increased warranty costs, customer dissatisfaction, or a reduction in or cancellation of purchase orders. If these defects occur either in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may be impaired. Since our products are used in products that are integral to our customers’ businesses, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers beyond the cost of the PCB, for which we may be liable in some cases. Although we generally attempt to sell our products on terms designed to limit our exposure to warranty, product liability and related claims, in certain cases, the terms of our agreements allocate to Merix substantial exposure for product defects. In addition, even if we can contractually limit our exposure, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, this reserve may not be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise as a result of defects in our products. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products, particularly those supplied by Merix Asia to the automotive industry, fail to perform as expected or such failure results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. As suppliers become more integral to the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. In addition, vehicle manufacturers, who 14 Table of Contents have traditionally borne the cost associated with warranty programs offered on their vehicles, are increasingly requiring suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and may seek to hold us responsible for some or all of the costs related to the repair and replacement of parts supplied by us to the vehicle manufacturer. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or established warranty and legal reserves or a requirement that we participate in a product recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on suppliers for the timely delivery of materials used in manufacturing our PCBs, and an increase in industry demand, a shortage of supply or an increase in the price of raw materials may increase the cost of the raw materials we use and may limit our ability to manufacture certain products and adversely impact our profitability. To manufacture our PCBs, we use materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil and chemical solutions which we order from our suppliers. Suppliers of laminates and other raw materials that we use may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, significant increases in the cost of laminate materials, copper products and petroleum-based raw materials. These cost increases have had an adverse impact on our profitability and the impact has been particularly significant on our Asian operations which have fixed price arrangements with a number of large automotive customers. Some of our products use types of laminates that are only available from a single supplier that holds a patent on the material. Although other manufacturers of advanced PCBs also must use the single supplier and our OEM customers generally determine the type of laminates used, a failure to obtain the material from the single supplier for any reason may cause a disruption, and possible cancellation, of orders for PCBs using that type of laminate, which in turn would cause a decrease in our consolidated net sales. If we lose key management, operations, engineering or sales and marketing personnel, we could experience reduced sales, delayed product development and diversion of management resources. Our success depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, administration, operations, engineering and sales and marketing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management or key professionals were to resign, the loss of personnel could result in loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, which would have a negative effect on our business. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on any of our personnel. Successful execution of our day-to-day business operations, including our manufacturing process, depends on the collective experience of our employees and we have experienced periods of high employee turnover. If high employee turnover persists, our business may suffer and we may not be able to compete effectively. We rely on the collective experience of our employees, particularly in the manufacturing process, to ensure we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies and remain competitive. Although we are not generally dependent on any one employee or a small number of employees involved in our manufacturing process, we have experienced periods of high employee turnover generally and continue to experience significantly high employee turnover at our Asian facilities. If we are not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable capabilities, our operations could suffer as we may be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry or the demands of our customers. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. 15 Table of Contents We export products from the United States to other countries. If we fail to comply with export laws, we could be subject to additional taxes, duties, fines and other punitive actions. Exports from the United States are regulated by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in significant fines and penalties. Additionally, violations of these laws can result in punitive penalties, which would restrict or prohibit us from exporting certain products, resulting in significant harm to our business. Because we have significant foreign sales and presence, we are subject to political, economic and other risks we do not face in the domestic market. As a result of increased Asian operations, we expect sales in, and product shipments to, non-U.S. markets to represent an increasingly significant portion of our total sales in future periods. Our exposure to the business risks presented by foreign economies includes: • logistical, communications and other operational difficulties in managing a global enterprise; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • longer sales and collection cycles; • potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws; • protectionist and trade laws and business practices that favor local companies; • restrictive governmental actions; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political and economic instability, including terrorist activities; • natural disaster or outbreaks of infectious diseases affecting the regions in which we operate or sell products; and • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in many jurisdictions, including mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies, including the Hong Kong dollar and the Chinese renminbi. Substantially all of our consolidated net sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The exchange rate of the Chinese renminbi to the U.S. dollar is closely monitored by the Chinese government. Recent increases in the value of the renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar have caused the costs of our Chinese operations to increase relative to related dollar-denominated sales. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. We may enter into exchange rate hedging programs from time to time in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. However, hedging transactions may not be effective and may result in foreign exchange hedging losses. 16 Table of Contents Our operations in the People’s Republic of China subject us to risks and uncertainties relating to the laws and regulations of the PRC. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. However, the government of the PRC may not continue to pursue such policies. Despite progress in developing its legal system, the PRC does not have a comprehensive and highly developed system of laws, particularly with respect to foreign investment activities and foreign trade. Enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and implementation and interpretation thereof may be inconsistent. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. For example, the PRC recently passed a unified enterprise income tax law, which changes and increases the income tax on foreign-owned facilities. The PRC also recently enacted new labor laws that became effective January 1, 2008 that make it more difficult and expensive for companies to make changes in their workforce. In addition, some government policies and rules are not published or communicated in local districts in a timely manner, if they are published at all. As a result, we may operate our business in violation of new rules and policies without having any knowledge of their existence. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. Any litigation in the PRC may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our Chinese manufacturing operations subject us to a number of risks we have not faced in the past. A substantial portion of our current manufacturing operations is located in the PRC. The geographical distances between these facilities and our U.S. headquarters create a number of logistical and communications challenges. We are also subject to a highly competitive market for labor in the PRC, which may require us to increase employee wages and benefits to attract and retain employees and spend significant resources to train new employees due to high employee turnover, either of which could cause our labor costs to exceed our expectations. In addition, because of the location of these facilities, we could be affected by economic and political instability in the PRC, including: • lack of developed infrastructure; • currency fluctuations; • overlapping taxes and multiple taxation issues; • employment and severance taxes; • the burdens of cost, compliance and interpretation of a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in attracting and training workers in foreign markets and problems caused by labor unrest; and • less protection of our proprietary processes and know-how. Moreover, inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure in the PRC, including inadequate power and water supplies, transportation or raw materials availability, communications infrastructure or the deterioration in the general political, economic or social environment, could make it difficult and more expensive, and possibly prohibitive, to continue to operate our manufacturing facilities in the PRC. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. As of May 31, 2008, we had approximately 2,400 employees in the PRC. Effective on January 1, 2008, the PRC government enacted a new labor law that significantly impacts the cost of a company’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, the law requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce in the PRC, the new labor law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our circumstances or that is timely and cost effective. Additionally, in response to inflationary concerns, 17 Table of Contents wages in certain provinces in China have recently increased and may continue to do so in the future. Significant increases in wages paid to employees in our Merix Asia facilities could reduce our profitability. Success in Asia may adversely affect our U.S. operations. To the extent Asian PCB manufacturers, including Merix Asia, are able to compete effectively with products historically manufactured in the United States, our facilities in the United States may not be able to compete as effectively and parts of our North American operations may not remain viable. If we do not effectively manage the expansion of our operations, our business may be harmed, and the increased costs associated with the expansion may not be offset by increased consolidated net sales. In fiscal 2008, we commenced efforts to significantly expand the Huiyang, China-based facility and any other future capacity expansion with respect to our facilities will expose us to significant start-up risks including: • delays in receiving and installing required manufacturing equipment; • inability to retain management personnel and skilled employees, or labor shortages in general; • difficulties scaling up production, including producing products at competitive costs, yields and quality standards at our expanded facilities; • challenges in coordinating management of operations and order fulfillment between our U.S. and Asian facilities; • a need to improve and expand our management information systems and financial controls to accommodate our expanded operations; • additional unanticipated costs; and • shortfalls in production volumes as a result of unanticipated start-up or expansion delays that could prevent us from meeting our customers’ delivery schedules or production needs. Our forward-looking statements depend upon a number of assumptions and include our ability to execute tactical changes that may adversely impact both short-term and long-term financial performance. The success of our expansion efforts will depend upon our ability to expand, train, retain and manage our employee base in both Asia and North America. In connection with our expansion efforts in Asia, we expect to require additional employees throughout the company. If we are unable to attract, train and retain new workers, or manage our employee base effectively, our ability to fully utilize our Asian assets will likely be impaired. If we are unable to effectively expand, train and manage our employee base, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if our consolidated net sales do not increase sufficiently to offset the additional fixed operating expenses associated with our Asian operations, our consolidated results of operations may be adversely affected. If demand for our products does not meet anticipated levels, the value of the expanded operations could be significantly impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Electrical power shortages in certain areas of southern China have caused the government to impose a power rationing program and additional or extended power rationings could adversely affect our China operations. In the winter months of fiscal 2008, certain areas of Southern China faced electrical power constraints which resulted from extreme winter weather in the area. In order to deal with the power constraints, the Southern China Province Government initiated a power rationing plan. This rationing program affected our Huizhou and Huiyang facilities. In order to minimize the effect on our operations, we realigned our routine equipment maintenance program to coincide with the power rationing schedule. The power rationing program was terminated in May 2008. In the future, there may be further restrictions regarding power and other key services that may impair our ability to compete effectively as well as adversely affect 18 Table of Contents revenues and production costs. Any additional or extended power supply rationing could adversely affect our China operations. China mandated shutdowns and other potential disruptions related to the 2008 Olympic games in Beijing could impact our supply chain and have a material adverse effect on our China operations. China announced a 9-week shutdown, beginning July 2008, of all polluting factories within a 200 kilometer radius of Beijing to clear the smog during the Olympic and Paralympics Games that begin on August 8 and run through September 17, 2008. The shutdown covers Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia and Shandong provinces. The Chinese government may expand the radius in the future if the air quality does not improve sufficiently prior to the Olympic Games. Also, there could be a suspension of material transportation and curtailment of power plant operation to further improve air quality. We do not own facilities within the shut-down area and most of our major suppliers are not located in the area impacted by the shutdown. Our major suppliers have committed to fulfilling our requirements during this period. However, unexpected impacts on the purchase of materials could cause production delays and adversely impact our results of operations. There could also be other unintended consequences, such as disruptions to business travel, which cannot be currently anticipated. Failure to maintain good relations with minority investors in our China manufacturing facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to manage our Asian operations. Currently, we have two PCB manufacturing plants in the PRC that are each partially owned by a separate Chinese company. While we are the majority interest holder in both of these companies, there is a minority interest holder in each subsidiary, owning a 5% and 15% share, respectively. These minority holders are local investors with close ties to local economic development and other government agencies. The investors are the leaseholders for the land on which the plants owned by our Chinese operating companies are located. In connection with the negotiation of their investments, the local investors secured certain rights to be consulted and consent to certain operating and investment matters concerning the plants and to board representation. Failure to maintain good relations with the investors in either China joint venture could materially adversely affect our ability to manage the operations of one or more of the plants and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Asian acquisition. We do not currently have options to renew our leased manufacturing facility in the PRC and failure to renew such lease could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Asian acquisition. Our Huizhou manufacturing facility is leased from a Chinese company under an operating lease that expires in 2010 and does not contain a lease renewal option. Although the landlord also has a minority interest in our subsidiary that operates the facility, this minority interest holder may choose to not renew our lease. Failure to maintain good relations with this investor could materially adversely affect our ability to negotiate the renewal of our operating lease or to continue to operate the plant. Although we have renewed this lease in the past, failure to successfully renew such lease in the future could materially adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Asian acquisition. In addition, the lease renewal allows early termination by either party, so failure to maintain good relations with this investor could materially impact our continued leasehold of the facility. Further, zoning and changes in laws in China could impair the ability of the landlord to extend or renew the lease. Our bank credit covenant that limits our incremental investment in Merix Asia may restrict our ability to adequately fund our Asian operations and our growth plans in Asia. Merix has a bank credit agreement covenant that limits the incremental investment into Merix Asia to $40 million and provides that our investments cannot be made if a default exists under the credit agreement or the Excess Availability (defined in the credit agreement as a function of outstanding borrowings and available cash) is less than $20 million. As of May 31, 2008, we had advanced Merix Asia approximately $19.2 million against the incremental investment limit. If our Asian operations at any time require an amount of cash greater than our available capital resources, or than is permitted to be advanced under 19 Table of Contents applicable credit agreements, there is risk that we will not be able to fund our Asian operations or achieve our growth plans in Asia. Acquisitions may be costly and difficult to integrate, may divert and dilute management resources and may dilute shareholder value. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or production capacity or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. In any future acquisitions or investments, we could potentially experience: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • failure to achieve potential sales, materials costs and other synergies; • inability to retain existing customers of acquired entities when we desire to do so; • the need to restructure, modify or terminate customer relationships of the acquired company; • increased concentration of business from existing or new customers; • unanticipated expenses and working capital requirements; • diversion of management’s attention and loss of key employees; • asset impairments related to the acquisitions; or • fewer resources available for our legacy businesses as they are being redirected to the acquired entities to integrate their business processes. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or investments, we could: • enter lines of business and/or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • issue stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt and assume liabilities that could impair our liquidity; • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; • uncover previously unknown liabilities; • become subject to litigation and environmental remediation issues; • incur large and immediate write-offs that would reduce net income; or • incur substantial transaction-related costs, whether or not a proposed acquisition is consummated. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing anticipated benefits of an acquisition or investment, including operational synergies, economies of scale and increased profit margins and revenue. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, product enhancements may not be made in a timely fashion. In addition, unforeseen issues might arise with respect to such products after the acquisition. We face a risk that capital needed for our business and to repay our debt obligations will not be available when we need it. Additionally, our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. As of May 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $70 million, which represented approximately 38.1% of our total capitalization. We also have a $55 million secured bank revolving line of credit that if utilized would increase our leverage. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; 20 Table of Contents • requiring the use of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Additionally, we are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our revolving credit facility which bears interest based, at our election, on either the prime rate or LIBOR plus an additional margin based on our use of the credit facility. No amounts were outstanding under this credit facility at May 31, 2008. If we need to utilize our revolving credit facility to meet our capital requirements, we are subject to market interest rate risk that could increase our interest expense beyond expected levels and decrease our profitability. Our capacity build-out and technological changes will require significant capital investment and could adversely affect our liquidity. We are currently undergoing a major expansion at our Huiyang, China based facility and are improving our technological capabilities through the addition of new capital in both our North American and China based facilities. This expansion, and other capital requirements, will require $16 million to $18 million of capital expenditures in fiscal 2009, with additional spending required to complete the projects in fiscal 2010. We anticipate funding this expansion from operations, existing cash and cash equivalents and bank credit facilities. Currently, we are not profitable and, if financial performance deteriorates further, we may have to significantly reduce capital spending that could impair our ability to successfully restructure our business and compete effectively. Further, our bank credit facilities provide credit based upon a number of covenants, with which we are currently in compliance. However, business conditions or our execution on a number of critical initiatives to support the capacity and technology expansion efforts could impair our ability to access these facilities. Restructuring efforts have required both restructuring and impairment charges and we may be required to record asset impairment charges in the future, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recorded impairment charges against certain assets in fiscal 2007 and we recorded restructuring and impairment charges in the fiscal 2008 for the closure of our Wood Village, Oregon manufacturing facility and other restructuring actions. As our strategy evolves and due to the cyclicality of our business, rapid technological change and the migration of business to Asia, we might conclude in the future that some of our manufacturing facilities are surplus to our needs or will not generate sufficient future cash flows to cover the net book value and, thus, we may be required to record an impairment charge. Such an impairment charge would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of May 31, 2008, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $40.7 million of goodwill and intangible assets. We periodically evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining balance of goodwill and intangible assets may not be recoverable. If factors indicate that assets are impaired, we would be required to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets, which could harm our results during the periods in which such a reduction is recognized. Our goodwill and intangible assets may increase in future periods if we consummate other acquisitions. Amortization or impairment of these additional intangibles would, in turn, harm our earnings. As we continue our work to implement a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, unexpected problems and delays could occur and could cause disruption to the management of our business and significantly increase costs. During fiscal 2008, we completed the implementation for our world-wide ERP system at our North American operations. The new ERP system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain 21 Table of Contents our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Our work to plan, develop and implement this new ERP system continues as an active project, as we plan to complete the implementation of the ERP system at our Asian operations in fiscal 2009. In connection with the Asia implementation, we plan to temporarily cease operations at our Asia facilities for approximately one week in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 in order to transition those facilities onto our ERP system. These systems are new to us and we have not had extensive experience with them. The new ERP system could eventually become more costly, difficult and time-consuming to purchase and implement than we currently anticipate. Implementation of the new ERP system may require us to change certain internal business practices and training may be inadequate. We may encounter unexpected difficulties, delays, internal control issues, costs, unanticipated adverse effects or other challenges, any of which may disrupt our business. Corrections and improvements may be required as we continue the implementation of our new system, procedures and controls, and could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to our new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records, compete effectively and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources and impact our ability to manage our business and our results of operations. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and if additional material weaknesses are discovered in the future, our stock price and investor confidence in us may be adversely affected. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In connection with management’s assessments of our internal control over financial reporting over the prior fiscal year and interim quarterly periods in the current fiscal year, we identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken the steps necessary to remediate certain material weaknesses identified during the interim reporting periods in fiscal 2008, specifically the material weaknesses related to controls over the processing and recording of transactions related to customer returns of products for warranty rework or credit and controls over the reconciliation of inter-company accounts and certain work in process inventories. The controls implemented to remediate these material weaknesses were determined to be operating effectively at May 31, 2008. We have previously identified a material weakness in controls over financial reporting for our Merix Asia operations and have determined that this material weakness still exists at May 31, 2008. At the time of the acquisition in September 2005, Merix Asia had weak internal controls over financial reporting and needed to develop processes to strengthen its accounting systems and control environment management. We have devoted significant time and resources to improving the internal controls over financial reporting since the acquisition; however, as of May 31, 2008, we have determined that we did not maintain sufficient controls to adequately monitor the accounting and financial reporting related to our Merix Asia operations. See Item 9A. “Controls and procedures.” We may, in the future, identify additional internal control deficiencies that could rise to the level of a material weakness or uncover errors in financial reporting. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may cause investors to lose confidence in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could adversely affect our business. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state and municipal environmental and safety laws and regulations including laws in the U.S. and the PRC that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous and other materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, 22 Table of Contents labeling, and disposal of such materials. When violations of environmental laws occur, we can be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of investigation and remedial actions. Violations of environmental laws and regulations may occur as a result of our failure to have necessary permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Moreover, in connection with our acquisitions in San Jose, California and in Asia, we may be liable for any violations of environmental and safety laws at those facilities by prior owners. If we violate environmental laws, we may be held liable for damages and the costs of investigations and remedial actions and may be subject to fines and penalties, and revocation of permits necessary to conduct our business. Any permit revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we ultimately prevail, environmental lawsuits against us would be time consuming and costly to defend. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could limit our ability to expand facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with these laws and regulations. In the future, environmental laws may become more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We operate in environmentally sensitive locations and we are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes or restrictions on discharge limits, emissions levels, permitting requirements and material storage, handling or disposal might require a high level of unplanned capital investment, operating expenses or, depending on the severity of the impact of the foregoing factors, costly plant relocation. It is possible that environmental compliance costs and penalties from new or existing regulations may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are potentially liable for contamination at our current and former facilities as well as at sites where we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, if such sites become contaminated. These liabilities could include investigation and remediation activities. It is possible that remediation of these sites could adversely affect our business and operating results in the future. Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business including complaints filed by investors. This litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention and resources which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. In cases where we record a liability, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the direct costs of litigation, pending or future litigation could divert management’s attention and resources from the operation of our business. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. As a result, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. From time to time, we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past and may in the future assert infringement claims against our customers or us with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property rights of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we become subject to infringement claims, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able 23 Table of Contents to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which would impact our financial position. As a corporation with operations both in the United States and abroad, we are subject to taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize net operating losses; • changes in contingencies related to taxes, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot provide assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND STOCK Our stock price has fluctuated significantly, and we expect the trading price of our common stock to remain highly volatile. The closing trading price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of less than $2.00 per share to a high of more than $70.00 per share over the past 14 years. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including: • actual and anticipated variations in our operating results; • general economic and market conditions, including changes in demand in the PCB industry and the end markets which we serve; • interest rates; • geopolitical conditions throughout the world; • perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the PCB industry and the end markets which it serves; • our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt when due; • developments in our relationships with our lenders, customers, and/or suppliers; • announcements of alliances, mergers or other relationships by or between our competitors and/or our suppliers and customers; • announcements of plant closings, layoffs, restructurings or bankruptcies by our competitors; and • developments related to regulations, including environmental and wastewater regulations. We expect volatility to continue in the future. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the PCB industry and that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies within these industries. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and limit our ability to raise capital or finance transactions using equity instruments. 24 Table of Contents A large number of our outstanding shares and shares to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding options may be sold into the market in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. We may, in the future, sell additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock, to raise capital. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock, to finance future acquisitions. Further, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. As of May 31, 2008, we had approximately 3.3 million outstanding options, each to purchase one share of our common stock, issued to employees, officers and directors under our equity incentive plans. The options have exercise prices ranging from $1.86 per share to $67.06 per share. These outstanding options could have a significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, especially if a significant volume of the options was exercised and the stock issued was immediately sold into the public market. Further, the exercise of these options could have a dilutive impact on other shareholders by decreasing their ownership percentage of our outstanding common stock. If we attempt to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital, if at all, may be negatively affected since the holders of outstanding options can be expected to exercise them, to the extent they are able, at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable than those provided in such options. Some provisions contained in our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Shareholders Rights Agreement, as well as provisions of Oregon law, could inhibit an attempt by a third party to acquire or merge with Merix Corporation. Some of the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, Shareholders Rights Agreement and Oregon’s anti-takeover laws could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition between us and a third party, or make a merger or acquisition with us less desirable to a potential acquirer, even in circumstances in which our shareholders may consider the merger or acquisition favorable. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue series of preferred stock and determine the rights and preferences of each series of preferred stock to be issued. Our Shareholder Rights Agreement is designed to enhance the Board’s ability to protect shareholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer an adequate price to all shareholders or are otherwise not in the Company’s best interests and the best interests of our shareholders. The rights issued under the rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant amount of common stock without approval of our Board of Directors. Any of these provisions that have the effect of delaying or deterring a merger or acquisition between us and a third party could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 