Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be unable to increase sales or identify suitable acquisition candidates. Our ability to increase sales depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of existing products, the successful introduction of new products, growth of consumer discretionary spending, our ability to recruit new independent sales consultants and promoters, sourcing of raw materials and demand-driven increases in production and distribution capacity. Business in all of our segments is driven by consumer preferences. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that our current or future products will maintain or achieve market acceptance. Our sales and earnings results can be negatively impacted by the worldwide economic environment, particularly the United States, Canadian and European economies. There can be no assurances that our financial results will not be materially adversely affected by these factors in the future. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions, and we continue to consider additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurances that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us, finance acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired operations or that companies we acquire will perform as anticipated. We may be unable to respond to changes in consumer preferences. Our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. The nature of our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our ability to meet future product demand in all of our business segments will depend upon our success in sourcing adequate supplies of our products; bringing new production and distribution capacity on line in a timely manner; improving our ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly; improving customer service-oriented management information systems; and training, motivating and managing new employees. The failure of any of the above could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. A continued or protracted downturn in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items including demand for our products. Factors that could affect consumers’ willingness to make such discretionary purchases include general business conditions, levels of employment, energy costs, interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence. A reduction in consumer spending could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The turmoil in the financial markets in recent years could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments and could result in additional impairments to our businesses. United States and global credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, in recent years equity markets have experienced rapid and wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing, if needed, may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our businesses. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings by the agencies would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. In the 11 Return to Top event current market conditions continue we will more than likely be subject to higher interest costs than we are currently incurring and may require our providing security to guarantee such borrowings. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain unfunded borrowings in that amount, which may require us to seek other forms of financing, such as term debt, at higher interest rates and with additional expenses. In addition, we may be subject to future impairments of our assets, including accounts receivable, investments, inventories, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, if the valuation of these assets or businesses declines. We face diverse risks in our international business, which could adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. For the eleven months ended December 31, 2011, and fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and January 31, 2010, revenue from outside the United States was 48%, 51% and 50% of our total revenue, respectively. We expect international sales to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Due to our reliance on sales to customers outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: · United States and foreign government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions on imports to or from the United States; · foreign government taxes and regulations, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to the United States; · the laws and policies of the United States, Canada and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes); · foreign labor laws, regulations and restrictions; · difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and difficulty in maintaining quality control; · adverse fluctuations in world currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any interest rate swap or other hedging activities we undertake; · political instability, natural disasters, health crises, war or events of terrorism; · transportation costs and delays; and · the strength of international economies. We are dependent upon sales by independent consultants and promoters. A significant portion of our products is marketed and sold via the direct selling method of distribution through independent consultants or promoters to consumers without the use of retail establishments. This distribution system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of independent consultants and promoters to offset frequent turnover. The recruitment and retention of independent consultants and promoters depends on the competitive environment among direct selling companies and on the general labor market, unemployment levels, economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. The motivation of our consultants and promoters depends, in large part, upon the effectiveness of our compensation and promotional programs, the competitiveness of our programs compared with other direct selling companies and the successful introduction of new products. 12 Return to Top Our sales are directly tied to the levels of activity of our consultants and promoters, for many of whom this is a part-time working activity. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of our consultants and promoters, as well as our competitors’ sales representatives, the margin mix in our product line and the activities and actions of our competitors. The loss of a leading consultant or promoter, together with the associated down line sales organization, or the loss of a significant number of consultants or promoters for any reason, could negatively impact sales of our products, impair our ability to attract new consultants or promoters and harm our financial condition and operating results. Earnings of independent sales consultants and promoters are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental regulations impose obligations on us to collect or pay taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we may be subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of new liabilities being imposed for social security and similar taxes with respect to independent sales consultants and promoters. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat independent sales consultants or promoters as employees, or that independent sales consultants and promoters are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors or agents under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social charges and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulate our Direct Selling businesses, products and programs. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to govern consultant and promoter conduct, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of consultants and promoters and their independent status. Violations by our independent consultants or promoters of applicable law or of our policies and procedures in dealing with customers could reflect negatively on our products and operations and harm our business reputation or lead to the imposition of penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business. Our profitability may be affected by shortages or increases in the cost of raw materials. Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in production requirements, weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of petroleum wax, it is possible that recent fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse effect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of our products, particularly in the Direct Selling and Wholesale segments. In recent years, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin, diethylene glycol (DEG), ethanol and paper, negatively impacted profitability of certain products in all three segments. In addition, a number of governmental authorities in the U.S. and abroad have introduced or are contemplating enacting legal requirements, including emissions limitations, cap and trade systems and other measures to reduce production of greenhouse gases, in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These measures may have an indirect effect on us by affecting the prices of products made from fossil fuels, including paraffin and DEG, as well as ethanol, which is used as an additive to gasoline. Given the wide range of potential future climate change regulations and their effects on these raw materials, the potential indirect impact to our operations is uncertain. In addition, climate change might contribute to severe weather in the locations where fossil fuel based raw materials are produced, such as increased hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, which could disrupt the production, availability or pricing of these raw materials. We expect not to be disproportionately affected by these measures compared with other companies engaged in the same businesses. Adverse publicity associated with our products, ingredients or the programs of our Direct Selling entities, or those of similar companies, could harm our financial condition and operating results. 13 Return to Top The size of our Direct Selling distribution network and the results of our operations may be significantly affected by the public’s perception of us and similar companies. This perception is dependent upon opinions concerning: • the safety, efficiency and quality of our products and ingredients; • the safety, efficiency and quality of similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies; • our consultants and promoters; • our promotional and compensation programs; and • the direct selling business in general. Adverse publicity concerning any actual or purported failure by us or our independent consultants or promoters to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of our programs, the licensing of our products for sale in our target markets or other aspects of our business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on our business and could negatively affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain consultants or promoters, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. In addition, our consultants’, promoters’ and consumers’ perception of the safety, quality and efficiency of our products and ingredients, as well as similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies, could be significantly influenced by media attention, publicized scientific research or findings, widespread product liability claims or other publicity concerning our products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate or resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or any similar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of our or similar products or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their use, could lead to lawsuits or other legal challenges and could negatively impact our reputation, the market demand for our products, or our general business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, then our ability to compete could be negatively affected, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own the material trademarks and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our products in the markets where those products are sold. Therefore, trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in certain countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The loss or infringement of our trademarks or trade names could impair the goodwill associated with our brands and harm our reputation, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Our Direct Selling businesses also possess trade secret rights in our consultant or promoter and customer lists and related contact information. Loss of protection for this intellectual property could harm our ability to recruit and retain consultants, promoters or customers, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and harm our financial condition and operating results. We may be subjected to various product liability claims, including claims that relate to the use of candles, chafing fuel and claims that products that are ingested by consumers or applied to their bodies contain contaminants, include inadequate instructions as to their uses, or include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. It is possible that widespread product liability claims could increase our costs, and adversely affect our revenues and operating income. Moreover, liability claims arising from a serious adverse event may increase our costs through higher insurance premiums and deductibles, and may make it more difficult to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. 14 Return to Top We are dependent upon our key management personnel. Our success depends in part on the contributions of our key management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert B. Goergen, Robert H. Barghaus, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Robert B. Goergen, Jr., President, PartyLite Worldwide and President, Direct Selling Group. The loss of any of the key corporate or operating units' management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our businesses are subject to the risks from increased competition. Our business is highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide markets for decorative and functional products for the home and for nutritional supplements are highly fragmented with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. ViSalus’s Vi-shape meal replacement product constitutes a significant portion of ViSalus’s sales. If consumer demand for this product decreases significantly or ViSalus ceases offering this product without a suitable replacement, then our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. In addition, we compete for independent sales consultants and promoters with other direct selling companies. We may face increased competition from other companies, some of which may have substantially greater financial or other resources than those available to us. Moreover, certain competitors focus on a single geographic or product market and attempt to gain or maintain market share solely on the basis of price. We depend upon our information technology systems. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems to operate our websites, to communicate with our consultants and promoters, process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. Previously, we have experienced interruptions resulting from upgrades to certain of our information technology systems that temporarily reduced the effectiveness of our operations. Our information technology systems depend on global communication providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit internal operations, the ability to provide customer service or the ability of customers or sales personnel to access our information systems. The Internet plays a major role in our interaction with customers and independent consultants and promoters. Risks such as changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches, and consumer privacy regulations are key concerns related to the Internet. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties could reduce sales, increase costs and damage our relationships. Management uses information systems to support decision making and to monitor business performance. We may fail to generate accurate financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management. Failure to adopt systematic procedures to maintain quality information technology general controls could disrupt our business. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controls such as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operate our business could be limited. The circumvention of our security measures could misappropriate confidential or proprietary information, including that of third parties such as our independent consultants and promoters and our customers, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or otherwise damage our reputation and business. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by such breaches. Any actual security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability under various laws and regulations. In addition, employee error or malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of any such information could result in a disclosure to third parties. If this should occur we could incur significant expenses addressing such problems. Since we collect and store consultant, promoter, customer, distributor and vendor information, including in some cases credit card information, these risks are heightened. 15 Return to Top Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. Our effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. Our Direct Selling segment is affected by extensive laws and governmental regulations; its failure to comply with those laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state and local levels, including regulations relating to: • the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of products; • product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, as well as claims and advertising by promoters, for which we may be held responsible; • promotional and compensation programs; and • taxation of our independent consultants and promoters (which in some instances may impose an obligation on us to collect the taxes and maintain appropriate records). There can be no assurance that we or our consultants and promoters are in compliance with all of these regulations, and the failure by us or our consultants or promoters to comply with these regulations or new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. In addition, our promotional and compensation programs are subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission and various state agencies in the United States and the equivalent provincial and federal government agencies in Canada. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our network marketing programs could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations. Regulations applicable to network marketing organizations generally are directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes, by ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within an organization is based on sales of the organization’s products rather than investments in the organization or other non-retail sales related criteria. The regulatory requirements concerning network marketing programs do not include “bright line” rules, and thus, even in jurisdictions where we believe that our promotional and compensation programs are in full compliance with applicable laws or regulations, it is subject to the risk that these laws or regulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. The failure of our promotional and compensation programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general. 16 Return to Top Increased cost of our catalog and promotional mailings can reduce our profitability. Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. Future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog circulations. Climate change may pose physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. Several of our facilities and our suppliers’ facilities are located in areas exposed to the risk of hurricanes or tornadoes. The effect of global warming on such storms is highly uncertain. Based on an assessment of the locations of the facilities, the nature and extent of the operations conducted at such facilities, the prior history of such storms in these locations, and the likely future effect of such storms on those operations and on the Company as a whole, we do not currently expect any material adverse effect on the results of operation from such storms in the foreseeable future. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 might have an impact on market confidence in our reported financial information. We must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will continue to perform the documentation and evaluations needed to comply with Section 404. If during this process our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert our internal control as effective. 17 Return to Top Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 