Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk of Inability to Increase Sales or Identify Suitable Acquisition Candidates Our ability to increase sales depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of existing products, the successful introduction of new products, growth of consumer discretionary spending, our ability to recruit new independent sales consultants, sourcing of raw materials and demand-driven increases in production and distribution capacity. Business in all of our segments is driven by consumer preferences. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that our current or future products will maintain or achieve market acceptance. Our sales and earnings results can be negatively impacted by the worldwide economic environment, particularly the United States, Canadian and European economies. There can be no assurances that our financial results will not be materially adversely affected by these factors in the future. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions, and management continues to consider additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurances that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on terms favorable to us, finance acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired operations. Risks Associated with International Sales and Foreign-Sourced Products Our international sales growth rate has outpaced that of our United States growth rate in recent years. Moreover, we source a portion of our products in all of our business segments from independent manufacturers in the Pacific Rim, Europe and Mexico. For these reasons, we are subject to the following risks associated with international manufacturing and sales: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; economic or political instability; international public health crises; transportation costs and delays; difficulty in maintaining quality control; restrictive governmental actions; nationalizations; the laws and 6 policies of the United States, Canada and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes); and the trade and tax laws of other nations. Ability to Respond to Increased Product Demand Our ability to meet future product demand in all of our business segments will depend upon our success in: sourcing adequate supplies of products; bringing new production and distribution capacity on line in a timely manner; improving our ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly; improving customer service-oriented management information systems; and training, motivating and managing new employees. The failure of any of the above could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. Risk of Shortages of Raw Materials Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in requirements, weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of petroleum wax, it is possible that recent fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse affect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of our products, particularly in the Direct Selling and Wholesale business segments. In fiscal 2007, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin, dyethelene glycol (DEG) and ethanol, as well as aluminum and paper, negatively impacted profitability of certain products in all three segments. Dependence on Key Corporate Management Personnel Our success depends in part on the contributions of key corporate management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert B. Goergen, as well as the members of the Office of the Chairman: Robert H. Barghaus, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., Vice President and President, Multi-Channel Group; and Frank P. Mineo, Senior Vice President and President, Direct Selling Segment. We do not have employment contracts with any of our key corporate management personnel, except the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nor do we maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of any of the key corporate management personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Risk of Increased Competition Our business is highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide market for Home Expressions products is highly fragmented with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. In addition, we compete for direct selling consultants with other direct selling companies. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in all of our business segments, we may face increased competition from other companies, some of which may have substantially greater financial or other resources than those available to us. Competition includes companies selling candles manufactured at low cost outside of the United States. Moreover, certain competitors focus on a single geographic or product market and attempt to gain or maintain market share solely on the basis of price. Risks Associated with Proposed FTC Regulations In April 2006, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that if implemented, will regulate all sellers of “business opportunities” in the United States. The proposed rule would, among other things, require all sellers of business opportunities, which would likely include PartyLite and Two Sisters Gourmet, to implement a seven-day waiting period before entering into an 7 agreement with a prospective business opportunity purchaser and provide all prospective business opportunity purchasers with substantial disclosures in writing regarding the business opportunity and the company. Based on information currently available, we anticipate that the final rule may require several years to become final and effective, and may differ substantially from the rule as originally proposed. Nevertheless the proposed rule, if implemented in its original form, would negatively impact our Direct Selling businesses. Risks Related to Information Technology Systems Our information technology systems are dependent on global communications providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit internal operations, the ability to provide customer service or the ability of customers or sales personnel to access our information systems. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 8 