Item 1A. Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are beyond our ability to control or predict. Any one of such influences, or a combination, could materially affect the results of our operations and the accuracy of forward-looking statements made by us. Some important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements includes the following: Risks Relating to our Businesses Our business is highly cyclical in nature due to our dependency on the levels of offshore oil and gas drilling and subsea construction activity. If we are unable to stabilize our cash flow during depressed markets, we may not be able to meet our obligations under our current or any future debt obligations, and we may not be able to secure financing or have sufficient capital to support our operations, which may materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In depressed markets, our ability to pay debt service and other contractual obligations will depend on improving our future performance and cash flow generation, which in turn will be affected by prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we have difficulty providing for debt service or other contractual obligations in the future, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or delaying non-regulatory maintenance expenditures and other operating and administrative costs, selling assets, refinancing or reorganizing our debt or other obligations and seeking additional equity capital, or any combination of the above. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets would delay or reduce future cash flows. We may not be able to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. The failure to successfully complete construction or conversion of our vessels on schedule, on budget, or at all, or to successfully utilize such vessels and the other vessels in our fleet at profitable levels could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have eight MPSVs and one subsea trenching and protection vessel currently under construction. Our fleet upgrade program may result in additional vessel construction projects and/or the conversion or retrofitting of some of our existing vessels. Our construction and conversion projects may be delayed, incur cost overruns or fail to be completed as a result of factors inherent in any large construction project, including shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. Failure to complete construction or conversion of vessels would, and significant delays in completing construction or conversion of vessels could, have an adverse effect on anticipated contract commitments or anticipated revenues with respect to such vessels. Continued delays with respect to the MPSVs under construction could result in financial penalties on us if those vessels are not timely delivered for operation. Further, shortages of raw materials and components resulting in significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction, conversion, or retrofit could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows if such overruns or delays exceed the liquidated damages provisions in our contracts or any vessel delivery insurance we may have. In addition, customer demand for vessels currently under construction or conversion may not be as strong as we presently anticipate, and our inability to obtain contracts on anticipated terms or at all may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our failure to retain key employees and attract additional qualified personnel for our operations could prevent us from implementing our business strategy or operating our business effectively. We have limited experience in the subsea services market. We depend on the technical and other experience of management and employees in our Subsea Services and Subsea Trenching and Protection business segments to fully implement our strategy. Although we have employment agreements in place with certain of our current executive officers, we may not be able to retain the services of these individuals and the loss of their services, in the absence of adequate replacements, would harm our ability to implement our business strategy and operate our business effectively. 15 Table of Contents In addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified management, engineers and other technical employees. If we are unable to attract and retain additional necessary personnel, our growth plans could be delayed or hindered. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary personnel could prevent us from executing our planned growth strategy. Increased competitive forces in the subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services markets could adversely affect our business. The markets for subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services are highly competitive. While price is a factor, the ability to acquire specialized vessels and equipment, to attract and retain skilled personnel, and to demonstrate a good safety record are also important. Several of our competitors in both the subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services market are substantially larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. We believe that other vessel owners are beginning to offer subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services to their customers. If other companies acquire vessels or equipment, or begin to offer integrated subsea services to customers, levels of competition may increase and our business could be adversely affected. Time chartering of our subsea services and subsea trenching and protection vessels require us to make payments absent revenue generation which could adversely affect our operations. Many of our subsea services and subsea trenching and protection vessels are under time charter contracts. Should we not have work for such vessels, we are still required to make time charter payments and such payments absent revenue generation could have an adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our fleet includes many older vessels that may require increased levels of maintenance and capital expenditures to be maintained in good operating condition, are less efficient than newer vessels, and may be subject to a higher likelihood of mechanical failure, an inability to economically return to service or requirement to be scrapped. If we are unable to continue to upgrade our fleet successfully, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008, the average age of our towing and supply vessels was 16 years. The average age of many of our competitors’ fleets is substantially younger than ours. Our older fleet is generally less technologically advanced than many newer fleets, is not capable of serving all markets, may require additional maintenance and capital expenditures to be kept in good operating condition and as a consequence may be subject to longer or more frequent periods of unavailability. Prolonged periods of unavailability of one or more of our older vessels could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we expect that our fleet is less fuel efficient than our competitors’ newer fleets, putting us at a competitive disadvantage because our customers are responsible for the fuel costs they incur. Our ability to continue to upgrade our fleet depends on our ability to commission the construction of new vessels as well as the availability in the market of newer, more technologically advanced vessels with the capabilities to meet our customers’ increasing requirements. If we cannot purchase or construct new vessels (including existing contracts for vessels under construction), then our customers may hire our competitors’ vessels, and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Increases in size, quality and quantity of the offshore vessel fleet in areas where we operate could increase competition for charters and lower day rates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Charter rates for marine support vessels in our market areas depend on the supply of and demand for vessels. Excess vessel capacity in the offshore support vessel industry is primarily the result of either construction of new vessels or the mobilization of existing vessels into fully saturated markets. There are a large number of vessels currently under construction and our competitors have recently placed a large number of orders for new 16 Table of Contents vessels to be delivered over the next few years. In recent years, we have been subject to increased competition from both new vessel construction, particularly in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as vessels mobilizing into regions in which we operate. A remobilization to the Gulf of Mexico of U.S.-flagged offshore supply vessels operating in other regions or a repeal or significant modification of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, as amended, or the Jones Act, or the administrative erosion of its benefits, permitting offshore supply vessels that are either foreign-flagged, foreign-built, foreign-owned, or foreign-operated to engage in the U.S. coastwise trade, would also result in an increase in capacity. Any increase in the supply of offshore supply vessels, whether through new construction, refurbishment or conversion of vessels from other uses, remobilization or changes in the law or its application, could increase competition for charters and lower day rates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Some of our employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws preempt state workers’ compensation laws and permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related incidents in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees or their representatives. Unionization efforts could increase our costs, limit our flexibility or increase the risk of a work stoppage. On December 31, 2008, approximately 39.3% of our employees worldwide were working under collective bargaining agreements, all of whom were working in Norway, the United Kingdom or Brazil. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce, including workers in the Gulf of Mexico. Any such unionization could increase our costs, limit our flexibility or increase the risk of a work stoppage. The removal or reduction of the reimbursement of labor costs by the Norwegian government may adversely affect our costs to operate our vessels in the North Sea. During July 2003, the Norwegian government began partially reimbursing us for labor costs associated with the operation of our vessels. These reimbursements totaled $7.8 million in 2008. If this benefit is reduced or removed entirely, our direct operating costs will increase substantially and negatively impact our profitability. Certain management decisions needed to successfully operate EMSL, our 49% partnership, are subject to the majority owner’s approval. The inability of our management representatives to reach a consensus with the majority owner may negatively affect our results of operations. We hold a 49% equity interest in EMSL and COSL holds the remaining equity interest of 51%. Although our management representatives from time to time may want to explore business opportunities and enter into material agreements which they believe are beneficial for EMSL, all decisions with respect to any material actions on the part of EMSL also require the approval of the representatives of COSL. A failure of COSL and our management representatives to reach a consensus on managing EMSL could materially hinder our ability to successfully operate the partnership. Our business plan involves establishing joint ventures with partners in targeted foreign markets. As a U.S. corporation doing business in international jurisdictions, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. Our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with U.S. laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law and a determination that we violated the FCPA, including actions taken by our foreign agents or joint venture partners, may adversely affect our business and operations. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with 17 Table of Contents local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that United States law and regulations prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in foreign jurisdictions, such as Nigeria and Mexico, we utilize local agents and seek to establish joint ventures with local operator or strategic partners. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including actions taken by our agents and our strategic or local partners, even though our agents and partners are not subject to the FCPA, we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our marine operations are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. As a result, our results of operations will vary throughout the year. In the North Sea, adverse weather conditions during the winter months impact offshore development operations. In the Gulf of Mexico, we historically have enjoyed our highest utilization rates during the second and third quarters, as mild weather provides favorable conditions for offshore exploration, development and construction. Activity in the Gulf of Mexico may also be subject to stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could require us to make substantial expenditures. We must comply with federal, state and local regulations, as well as certain international conventions, the rules and regulations of certain private industry organizations and agencies, and laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which our vessels operate and are registered. These regulations govern, among other things, worker health and safety and the manning, construction, and operation of vessels. These organizations establish safety criteria and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend approved safety standards. If we fail to comply with the requirements of any of these laws or the rules or regulations of these agencies and organizations, we could be subject to substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctive relief. Norwegian authorities have announced they are considering modifying safety regulations applicable to our fleet in the North Sea. If these modifications are implemented, we may incur substantial compliance costs. Our operations also are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment and that otherwise relate to environmental protection. While our insurance policies provide coverage for accidental occurrence of seepage and pollution or clean up and containment of the foregoing, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We may incur substantial costs in complying with such laws and regulations, and noncompliance can subject us to substantial liabilities. The laws and regulations applicable to us and our operations may change. If we violate any such laws or regulations, this could result in significant liability to us. In addition, any amendment to such laws or regulations that mandates more stringent compliance standards would likely cause an increase in our vessel operating expenses. The loss of a key customer could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our operations, particularly in the North Sea, West Africa, Mexico, and Brazil, depend on the continuing business of a limited number of key customers. Two of our customers, Grupo Diavaz and StatoilHydro, each represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenues during 2008. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our key customers in these regions terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew our existing contracts, or refuses to award new contracts to us. 18 Table of Contents The early termination of contracts on our vessels could have an adverse effect on our operations. Some long-term contracts for our vessels contain early termination options in favor of the customer. While some of these contracts have early termination penalties or other provisions designed to discourage the customers from exercising such options, we cannot assure you that our customers would not choose to exercise their termination rights in spite of such penalties. Additionally, customers without contractual termination rights may choose to terminate their contacts despite the threat of litigation from us. Until replacement of such business with other customers, any termination of long-term contracts could temporarily disrupt our business or otherwise adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We might not be able to replace such business on economically equivalent terms. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers and certain other third parties, and nonpayment by our customers could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers and certain other third parties or the failure by the shipyard to build or timely deliver the MPSVs currently on order, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, which in turn could reduce our ability to pay interest on, or the principal of, our credit facilities. If any of our key customers defaults on its obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Our inability to recruit, retain and train crew members may affect our ability to offer services, reduce operational efficiency and increase our labor rates. The delivery of all of our new vessels will require the addition of a significant number of new crew members. Operating these vessels will also require us to increase the level of training for certain crew members. In addition, in each of the markets in which we operate, we are vulnerable to crew member departures. Our inability to retain crew members or recruit and train new crew members in a timely manner may adversely affect our ability to provide certain services, reduce our operational efficiency and increase our crew labor rates. Should we experience a significant number of crew member departures and a resulting increase in our labor rates and interruptions in our operations, our results of operations would be negatively affected. Our operations are subject to operating hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. Marine support vessels are subject to operating risks such as catastrophic marine disasters, natural disasters (including hurricanes), adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure, crew negligence, collisions, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors. Some of these operating risks may increase as we provide Subsea Services jointly with our partners in the subsea market, and our vessels serve as platforms for subsea work. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to, or loss of, our vessels and our vessels’ tow or cargo or other property and may result in injury to passengers and personnel, including employees of our partners in the subsea market. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in operating costs or liability to third parties. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of these risks, which our management considers to be customary in the industry. We can make no assurances that we can renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. In addition, concerns about terrorist attacks, as well as other factors, have caused significant increases in the cost of our insurance coverage. The cost and availability of drydock services may impede our ability to return vessels to the market in a timely manner. From time to time our vessels undergo routine drydock inspection, maintenance and repair as required under U.S. Coast Guard regulations and in order to maintain American Bureau of Shipping, Det Norske Veritas or vessel certifications for our vessels. If the cost to drydock, repair, or maintain our vessels should continue to increase, or if the availability of shipyards to perform such services should decline, then our ability to return vessels 19 Table of Contents to work at sustained day rates, or at all, could be materially affected, and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Operating internationally subjects us to significant risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets, such as West Africa. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others: • Government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential customers to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; • Potential vessel seizure or confiscation, or the expropriation, nationalization or detention of assets; • Repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements and converting it into dollars or other fungible currency; • Exchange rate fluctuations, which can reduce the purchasing power of local currencies and cause our costs to exceed our budget, reducing our operating margin in the affected country; • Lack of ability to collect amounts owed; • Civil uprisings, riots, and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules, and expose us to losses; • Availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crew members or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; • Decrees, laws, regulations, interpretations and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and • Terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our crew members or onshore personnel. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure We may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. The re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding on acceptable terms, if at all. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, then, as a consequence of these changes in the credit markets, we cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities in sufficient amounts, either because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or because our borrowing base may decrease as a result of lower asset valuations, operating difficulties, lending requirements or regulations, or for 20 Table of Contents any other reason. Moreover, even if lenders and institutional investors are willing and able to provide adequate funding, interest rates may rise in the future and therefore increase the cost of borrowing we incur on any of our floating rate debt. Finally, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional equity financing or seek third-party financing to satisfy such obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that our business, liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations will not be materially and adversely impacted in the future as a result of the existing or future credit market conditions. Our holding company structure may adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries and a majority of our profits are generated by our Norwegian subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to meet our obligations depends on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon the ability of such subsidiaries to provide us with cash, whether in the form of management fees, dividends, loans or otherwise, and to pay amounts due on our obligations. Dividends, loans and other distributions to us from such subsidiaries may be subject to contractual and other restrictions and are subject to other business considerations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, to comply with debt covenants and to make payments on our indebtedness. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $805.9 million, which represents approximately 84.9% of our capitalization. Our interest expense in 2008 was $31.9 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness may adversely affect our flexibility in responding to adverse changes in economic, business or market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our high degree of leverage may have important consequences to you, including the following: • we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations under our senior credit facilities or other indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • we may be more vulnerable to the impact of economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors. In the past two years, we have amended several of our credit facilities and received waivers prior to the completion of some of the amendments in order to comply with the covenants contained in our credit facilities. Due to the goodwill and intangible impairment taken at December 31, 2008, the Company received waivers and amendments related to its minimum net worth requirement as of December 31, 2008 and amended certain credit facilities on a go forward basis to exclude the effect of this impairment. Please see “Item 9B. Other Information.” Continued compliance with our debt covenants are dependent upon us obtaining a minimum level of EBITDA and liquidity in 2009. Our forecasted EBITDA contains certain estimates and assumptions regarding new vessel deliveries, fleet utilization, average day rates, and operating and general and administrative expenses, which could prove to be inaccurate. A material deviation from one or more of these estimates or assumptions could result in a violation of one or more of our covenants. If a violation were to occur, there are no assurances that we could obtain waivers or amendments to these covenants. Failure to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments would result in all or a portion of our debt becoming immediately due and payable. Holders of our 6.5% Debentures have the right to convert their debentures into our common stock and receive a make whole interest payment from us at any time. In December 2008, two holders of our 6.5% Debentures converted $22 million principal amount of the debentures, collectively, for a combination of $6.3 million in cash related to the interest make-whole provision and 544,284 shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 24.74023 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures. Subsequent to the end of 2008, seven holders of our 6.5% Debentures converted $13.1 million principal amount of the debentures, collectively, for a combination of $3.7 million in cash related to the interest make-whole provision and 324,690 shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 24.74023 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures. As of the date hereof, there are approximately $264.9 million principal amount of the 6.5% Debentures outstanding. Should the remaining holders of such debentures convert, we would be required to pay approximately $75 million (as of March 11, 2009) in cash related to the interest make-whole provision and issue approximately 6.6 million shares of our common stock based on the initial conversion rate of 24.74023 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures. 21 Table of Contents Such conversions could significantly impact our liquidity and we may not have sufficient funds to make the required cash payments should a majority of the remaining holders convert. We have entered into a definitive term sheet, subject to final documentation, with the principal lender under our NOK 350 million revolving credit facility, NOK 230 million revolving credit facility, NOK 150 million additional term loan and NOK 200 million overdraft facility to, among other things, shorten the maturity dates for all facilities to January 1, 2010, eliminate the requirement that DeepOcean AS be listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange, consent to the tonnage tax related corporate reorganization, and increase certain fees and margins. When the maturities of these debt agreements are amended in accordance with the term sheet, any amounts outstanding under the agreements will become due on January 1, 2010. The total amount outstanding under these facilities as of December 31, 2008 was $96.4 million. Due to the goodwill and intangible impairment taken at December 31, 2008, the Company received waivers and amendments related to its minimum net worth requirement as of December 31, 2008 and amended certain credit facilities on a go forward basis to exclude the effect of this impairment. Please see “Item 9B. Other Information.” Under certain of the Company’s debt agreements, an event of default will be deemed to have occurred if there is a change of control of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries or if a material adverse change occurs to the financial position of the applicable borrowing entity within the Company. Also, certain of the Company’s debt agreements contain a material adverse change/effect provision that is determined in the reasonable opinion of the respective lenders, which is outside the control of the Company. Additionally, certain of the Company’s debt agreements contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions that trigger defaults under other of the Company’s debt agreements. Our failure to convert or pay the make whole interest payment under the terms of the debentures or to pay amounts outstanding under our debt agreements when due would constitute events of default under the terms of the debt, which in turn, could constitute an event of default under all of our outstanding debt agreements. For a complete description of our indebtedness, please read Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein in Item 8. Our business segments have been capitalized and are financed on a stand-alone basis, which may hinder efficient utilization of available financial resources. In general, we operate through five primary geographic regions, the North Sea, Latin America (including Mexico and Brazil), the Pacific Rim (including Australia), the U.S., and West Africa. These geographic regions have been capitalized and are financed on a stand-alone basis. U.S. and Norwegian tax laws preclude us, to some extent, from effectively transferring the financial resources from one geographic region for the benefit of the other. Additionally, there are obstacles that we must overcome to achieve a funds transfer from our Norwegian subsidiaries in a tax-efficient manner, and there can be no assurance as to the success of such efforts. We may not be able to repatriate funds from Norway to the U.S., which could negatively impact our operational flexibility. Our Norwegian subsidiaries generated the majority of our profits and our cash flow from operations during 2008 and prior periods, and from time to time we generate substantial liquidity from these subsidiaries. Our ability to repatriate funds depends on a number of factors, including: • the availability of cash at our Norwegian subsidiaries, or availability under our existing credit facilities ($37 million) at December 31, 2008; • our ability to comply with the funded debt to operating income plus depreciation and amortization covenant ratios in our Norwegian subsidiaries’ NOK Revolver following completion of the repatriation; and • our Norwegian subsidiaries having sufficient distributable equity to support the repatriation. If we are not able to repatriate funds from our Norwegian subsidiaries, then our U.S. cash and liquidity position could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards or foreign tax credits may be limited by certain events which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. At December 31, 2008, we had estimated net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of $69.8 million for federal income tax purposes that are set to expire beginning in 2023 through 2028. Any future change in our 22 Table of Contents ownership may limit the ultimate utilization of our NOLs pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). An ownership change may result from, among other things, transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. If we cannot utilize these NOLs, then our liquidity position could be materially and adversely affected. We may face material tax consequences or assessments in countries in which we operate. If we are required to pay material tax assessments, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We conduct business globally and, as a result, one or more of our subsidiaries files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business we are subject to examination by taxing authorities worldwide, including such major jurisdictions as Norway, Mexico, Brazil, Nigeria, Angola, Hong Kong, China, and the United States. During the past three years, our Brazilian subsidiary received non-income related tax assessments from Brazilian state tax authorities totaling approximately 31.6 million Brazilian Reais ($13.6 million at December 31, 2008) in the aggregate and may receive additional assessments in the future. The tax assessments are based on the premise that certain services provided in Brazilian federal waters are considered taxable as transportation services. If the courts in these jurisdictions uphold the assessments, it would have a material adverse effect on our net income, liquidity and operating results. We do not believe any liability in connection with these matters is probable and, accordingly, have not accrued for these assessments or any potential interest charges for the potential liabilities. Currency fluctuations and economic and political developments could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the size of our international operations, a significant percentage of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We primarily are exposed to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Norwegian Kroner, the British Pound, the Brazilian Real, and the Nigerian Naira. Changes in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could result in translation adjustments reflected as a component of other comprehensive income or losses in shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet. In addition, translation gains and losses could contribute to fluctuations or movements in our income. We are also exposed to risks involving political and economic developments, royalty and tax increases, changes in laws or policies affecting our operating activities, and changes in the policies of the United States affecting trade, taxation, and investment in other countries. The terms of our existing registration rights agreement with certain of our common stockholders may restrict the timing of any public offering or other distribution of shares of our common stock and may depress the market price of our stock. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement we executed upon emergence from bankruptcy, certain holders of our common stock have the right to cause us to file a registration statement for the resale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which may be in the form of an underwritten public offering. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market during a short time period, whether in a single transaction or series of transactions, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our outstanding common stock. The Company has agreed that it will not effect any public offering or distribution of its equity securities during the period beginning 10 days prior to and ending 90 days after the date of the prospectus for any such offering (or such shorter period as the underwriters in such transaction may require). As a result, during any such underwritten offering our ability to access the equity capital markets at times when we believe the market is favorable could be limited, and we may have to access other sources of liquidity even if those sources are less attractive to us than selling primary shares of our common stock in the market. Our charter documents include provisions limiting the rights of foreign owners of our capital stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that no shares held by or for the benefit of persons who are non-U.S. citizens that are determined, collectively with all other shares so held, to be in excess of 24.99% of our 23 Table of Contents outstanding capital stock (or any class thereof) are entitled to vote or to receive or accrue rights to any dividends or other distributions of assets paid or payable to the other holders of our capital stock. Those shares determined to be in excess of 24.99% shall be the shares determined by our board of directors to have become so owned most recently. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that, at the option of our board, we may redeem such excess shares for cash or for promissory notes with maturities not to exceed ten years and bearing interest at the then-applicable rate for U.S. treasury instruments of the same tenor. U.S. law currently requires that no more than 25% of our capital stock (or of any other provider of domestic maritime support vessels) may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are non-U.S. citizens. Similarly, the limitations on voting power of the corporation also limit the percentage of non-U.S. citizens that may serve on our Board of Directors. Currently, our charter limits the number of non-U.S. citizen directors to no more than a minority of the quorum. Should that number increase such that the number of non-U.S. citizen directors would have more than 25% of the voting power of the corporation, we could lose our ability to engage in coastwise trade. If this charter provision is ineffective, then ownership of 25% or more of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens could result in the loss of our ability to engage in coastwise trade, which would negatively affect our towing and supply business, and possibly result in the imposition of fines and other penalties. As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that approximately 23.6% of our capital stock was held by non-U.S. citizens. Our charter and bylaws may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions dividing our board of directors into classes of directors, granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for nominations for election to our board of directors and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. These provisions may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers and preventing you from getting a premium for your shares that would have otherwise been offered or delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Provisions of our debentures could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our 6.5% Debentures and 3.0% Debentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of our debentures will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their debentures or any portion of the principal amount of such debentures in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required either to pay an interest make-whole payment or to issue additional shares upon conversion, or to provide for conversion into the acquirer’s capital stock in the event that a holder converts his debentures prior to and in connection with certain fundamental changes, which may have the effect of making an acquisition of us less attractive. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events, or on the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. A substantial number of shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale upon conversion of the 6.5% Debentures and exercise of the phantom stock units, and the sale of those shares could adversely affect our stock price. Pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreement that we entered into with the purchasers of the debentures, we registered for resale 7,422,069 shares of common stock which are issuable, in certain circumstances (and assuming conversion at the initial conversion rate), to such purchasers upon conversion of the debentures. The debentures are convertible into, at our election, cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreement that we entered into with West Supply IV, we registered 1,352,558 shares of our common stock issuable, in certain circumstances, 24 Table of Contents to West Supply IV upon the exercise of the phantom stock units for resale on certain registration statements that the Company may file (including the registration statement to register the shares underlying the debentures). A substantial number of shares of our common stock is now eligible for public sale upon conversion of the debentures and exercise of the phantom stock units. If a significant portion of these shares were to be offered for sale at any given time, the public market for our common stock and the value of our common stock owned by our stockholders could be adversely affected. You will experience substantial dilution if the 6.5% Debentures are converted and the phantom stock units are exercised for shares of our common stock. The 6.5% Debentures issued in connection with the acquisition of DeepOcean and CTC Marine are convertible into, at our election, cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at an initial conversion rate of 24.74023 shares per $1,000 principal amount of debentures, subject to adjustment. If converted, the holders will receive, at our election, cash, shares or a combination thereof. In addition, the phantom stock units issued to West Supply IV and certain members of DeepOcean management represent the right to receive an aggregate of up to 1,581,902 shares of our common stock. If shares of our common stock are issued upon conversion of the debentures and phantom stock units are exercised the result would be a substantial dilution to our existing stockholders of both their ownership percentages and voting power. We may be required to repurchase our debentures for cash upon specified events, which include a fundamental change, or pay cash upon conversion of our debentures. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 6.5% Debentures on each of May 15, 2013, May 15, 2015, May 15, 2018 and May 15, 2023 and the 3% Debentures on each of January 15, 2014, January 15, 2017 and January 15, 2022. In addition, holders of the debentures may require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity. In addition, upon conversion of the debentures, under certain circumstances holders may receive a cash payment. Any of our future debt agreements may contain a similar provision. Such conversions could significantly impact liquidity, and we may not have sufficient funds to make the required repurchase in cash or cash payments at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase the debentures in cash or to pay cash upon conversion of the debentures may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time restricting our ability to purchase the debentures for cash or pay cash upon conversion of your debentures. If we fail to repurchase the debentures in cash or pay cash upon conversion of our debentures under circumstances where such payment would be required by the indenture governing the debentures, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the debentures, which, in turn, could constitute an event of default under the agreements relating to our debt outstanding at such time. Under certain of the Company’s debt agreements, an event of default will be deemed to have occurred if there is a change of control of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries or if a material adverse change occurs to the financial position of the applicable borrowing entity within the Company. Also, certain of the Company’s debt agreements contain a material adverse change/effect provision that is determined in the reasonable opinion of the respective lenders, which is outside the control of the Company. Additionally, certain of the Company’s debt agreements contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions that trigger defaults under other of the Company’s debt agreements. Under cross-default provisions in several agreements governing our indebtedness, a default or acceleration of one debt agreement will result in the default and acceleration of our other debt agreements (regardless of whether we were in compliance with the terms of such other debt agreements). A similar default will occur under three of our credit facilities if an event of default occurs under any of our other indebtedness in a principal amount above $10 million. A default, whether by us or any of our subsidiaries, could result in all or a portion of our outstanding debt becoming immediately due and payable and, in such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. Such cross-defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our credit facilities. For additional information about our debt facilities and cross-default provisions, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the level of exploration and production expenditures, in oil and gas prices or industry perceptions about future oil and gas prices could materially decrease our cash flows and reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Our revenues are primarily generated from entities operating in the oil and gas industry in the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa, Mexico, Brazil, the Mediterranean and Southeast Asia. Because our revenues are generated primarily from customers having similar economic interests, our operations are susceptible to market volatility resulting from economic or other changes to the oil and gas industry (including the impact of hurricanes). Changes in the level of exploration and production expenditures, in oil and gas prices, or industry perceptions about future oil and gas prices could materially decrease our cash flows and reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Demand for our services depends heavily on activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. The offshore rig count is ultimately the driving force behind the day rates and utilization in any given period. Depending on when we enter into long-term contracts, and their duration, the positive impact on us of an increase in day rates could be mitigated or delayed, and the negative impact on us of a decrease in day rates could be exacerbated or prolonged. This is particularly relevant to the North Sea market, where contracts tend to be longer in duration. A decrease in activity in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which we operate could adversely affect the demand for our marine support services and may reduce our revenues and negatively impact our cash flows. A decline in demand for our services could also prevent us from securing long-term contracts for the vessels we have on order. If market conditions were to decline in market areas in which we operate, it could require us to evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets, which may result in write-offs or write-downs on our vessels that may be material individually or in the aggregate. Moreover, increases in oil and natural gas prices and higher levels of expenditure by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production may not necessarily result in increased demand for our services or vessels. If our competitors are able to supply services to our customers at a lower price, then we may have to reduce our day rates, which would reduce our revenues. Certain of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and more experience operating in international areas than we have. Competition in the subsea and marine support services businesses primarily involves factors such as: • price, service, safety record and reputation of vessel operators and crews; • fuel efficiency of vessels; and • quality and availability of equipment and vessels of the type, capability and size required by the customer. Any reduction in rates offered by our competitors or growing disparity in fuel efficiency between our fleet and those of our competitors may cause us to reduce our rates and may negatively impact the utilization of our vessels, which will negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. During recent months, there has been substantial volatility and losses in worldwide equity markets that could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. Due to this economic condition, there has been a reduction in demand for energy products that has resulted in declines in oil and gas prices, which is a significant part of most of our customers’ business. In addition, due to the substantial uncertainty in the global economy, there has been deterioration in the credit and capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. These conditions could have an adverse effect on our industry and our business, including our future operating results and the ability to recover our assets at their stated values. Our customers may curtail their capital and operating expenditure 26 Table of Contents programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our vessels and a reduction in day rates and/or utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us, in the event they are unable to access the capital markets to fund their business operations. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect our operations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 