Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We expect to continue to operate at a loss, and we may never achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1990, including net losses of $228.0 million in 2005, $155.1 million in 2004 and $111.0 million in 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $812.6 million. The process of developing and commercializing our products requires significant research and development work, preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approvals, significant marketing and sales efforts, and manufacturing capabilities. These activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, require significant investments and are expected to continue to result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. We have not generated any product revenues to date, and even after we generate revenues relating to ACEON®, Ranexa™, and other approved products, if any, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. As we transition from a research and development-focused company to a company with commercial operations and revenues, we expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate. Our product revenues will be unpredictable and may fluctuate due to many factors, many of which we cannot control. For example, factors affecting our revenues presently or in the future could include: • timing and success of product launches by us and our collaborative partners, including the planned launch of Ranexa in the United States in March 2006; • level of demand for our products, including physician prescribing habits; • wholesaler buying patterns, product returns and contract terms; • reimbursement rates or policies; • the results of our clinical studies, including our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, our product promotional materials and programs; • government regulations; • increased competition from new or existing products or therapies, including lower-priced generic products and alternatives to drug treatment such as interventional medicine; • changes in our contract manufacturing activity, including the availability or lack of commercial supplies of products and samples for promotion and distribution; • timing of non-recurring license fees and the achievement of milestones under new and existing license and collaborative agreements; and • our product marketing, promotion, distribution and pricing strategies and programs, including, without limitation, post-approval studies and product lifecycle planning. With respect to our co-promotion arrangement relating to ACEON®, in addition to the foregoing factors, we will not receive any revenues under the arrangement if specified sales levels are not achieved. There are also provisions in our agreement that could affect revenues. For example, the amount of revenues we receive under 22 Table of Contents the agreement will be modified if the FDA approves a generic to perindopril in the United States, if we do not meet our minimum marketing and promotional commitments under the agreement, or if we allow Solvay Pharmaceuticals to provide at least a specified number of details that turns out to be the majority of product details in any given year. In addition, our expenses, including payments owed by us under licensing, collaborative or manufacturing arrangements, are unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indicator of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. Also, our operating results in a particular quarter or quarters may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we may be unable to complete our research and development activities or successfully commercialize any of our products. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $460.2 million, which we expect will be sufficient to fund our current operations for at least the next 12 months. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our net losses were $228.0 million, $155.1 million and $111.0 million, respectively. We currently estimate that our operating expenses for 2006 will be approximately $310.0 million to $330.0 million. Although we began to commercialize ACEON® during the second quarter of 2005, we have generated no revenue for 2005. We do not expect to generate sufficient revenues through our United States co-promotion of ACEON® or through our planned launch of Ranexa in March 2006 to achieve profitability without requiring additional funding in order to complete our future research, development and commercialization activities. The amount of additional funding that we will require depends on many factors, including, without limitation: • the amount of revenue, if any, that we are able to obtain from any approved products, and the time and costs required to achieve those revenues; • the timing, scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, including our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa; • the size and complexity of our programs; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of launching our products; • the costs of commercializing our products, including marketing, promotional and sales costs; • the costs of manufacturing or obtaining preclinical, clinical and commercial materials; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborative partnerships, such as our arrangement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals and our arrangement with Astellas US LLC (formerly Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc.); • competing technological and market developments; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; and • progress in our research and development programs. 23 Table of Contents Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may, among other things: • have to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and/or development programs; • have to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our commercialization activities; • lose rights under existing licenses; • have to relinquish more of, or all of, our rights to product candidates on less favorable terms than we would otherwise seek; and • be unable to operate as a going concern. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will experience dilution. Our failure to manage our rapid growth could harm our business. We have experienced rapid growth and expect to continue to expand our operations over time. In 2005, we more than doubled the size of our workforce, including by hiring, training and deploying a national cardiovascular specialty sales force of approximately 250 personnel. As we perform under the co-promotion arrangement relating to ACEON®, prepare for the launch of Ranexa in March 2006, continue to conduct a large clinical trial of Ranexa, continue to conduct clinical trials for our other product candidates and continue our drug discovery efforts, we have added personnel in many areas, including operations, sales, marketing, regulatory, clinical, finance, information systems and other general and administrative functions. We may not manage this growth effectively, which would harm our business and cause us to incur higher operating costs. If rapid growth continues, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. The commercialization of our products is substantially dependent on our ability to develop effective sales and marketing capabilities. Our successful commercialization of Ranexa and ACEON® in the United States will depend on our ability to establish an effective sales and marketing organization in the United States. We have hired, trained and deployed additional marketing personnel and a national cardiovascular specialty sales force of approximately 250 personnel, which began to promote ACEON® in 2005 and is being trained to promote Ranexa in 2006. The size of our sales force may increase or decrease in the future, depending on many factors, including the effectiveness of the sales force, the level of market acceptance of Ranexa, and the results of our ongoing MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa. Recruiting, hiring, training, deploying and retaining a national sales force and additional personnel is very expensive, complex and time-consuming. We do not know if this sales force will be sufficient in size or scope to compete successfully in the marketplace. Among other factors, we may not be able to gain sufficient access to healthcare practitioners, which would have a negative effect on our ability to promote our products and gain market acceptance. Even if we gain access to healthcare practitioners, we may not be able to change prescribing patterns in favor of our approved products. We do not know whether the personnel we have recruited and trained will be effective or whether we will gain market acceptance for Ranexa or ACEON® in the United States. Our approved products may not achieve market acceptance and revenues. If Ranexa and ACEON® fail to achieve market acceptance, our product sales and our ability to become profitable in the future will be adversely affected. Many factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of Ranexa and ACEON® in the United States, including: • our product marketing, promotion, distribution and pricing strategies and programs; 24 Table of Contents • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of competing products or therapies; • product labeling claims; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, our product promotional materials and programs; • the perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of competing products or therapies; • patient and physician satisfaction with the product; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and those of our strategic partners, including Solvay Pharmaceuticals and Astellas; • the size of the market for the product; • any publicity concerning the product or similar products; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments, including lower-priced generic products; • the availability and level of third-party reimbursement for the product; • the ability to gain formulary acceptance and favorable formulary positioning for our approved products on government and managed care formularies; • the success of ongoing development work relating to the products, including our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa; • new data or adverse event information relating to the product or any similar products and any resulting regulatory scrutiny; • our ability to satisfy post-marketing safety surveillance responsibilities and safety reporting requirements; • whether or not regulatory authorities impose risk management programs on the product, which can vary widely in scope, complexity, and impact on market acceptance of a product, and can include education and outreach programs, controls on the prescribing, dispensing or use of the product, and/or restricted access systems; • the continued availability of third parties to manufacture and distribute the product and product samples on acceptable terms, and the continued ability to manufacture commercial-scale quantities of the product successfully and on a timely basis; • the outcome of patent or product liability litigation, if any, related to the product; • regulatory developments relating to the development, manufacture, commercialization or use of the product; and • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, we believe that the approved product labeling for Ranexa and ACEON® will have a direct impact on our marketing, promotional and sales programs for these products, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. 25 Table of Contents Regulatory authorities approve product labeling with reference to the preclinical and clinical data that form the basis of the product approval, and as a result the scope of approved labeling is generally impacted by the available data. The approved product labeling for Ranexa states that because of the potential safety risk of QT prolongation caused by Ranexa, the product should be reserved for use in chronic angina patients who have not achieved an adequate response with other antianginal drugs, and should be used in combination with other common antianginal treatments, specifically amlodipine, beta-blockers or nitrates. As a result, Ranexa is approved for only a portion of the overall angina patient population in the United States. Any approval of Ranexa for broader use with angina patients will require, among other things, successful completion of our large ongoing MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial, from which preliminary results are expected at the end of 2006 or in the first quarter of 2007. We cannot assure you that the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial will succeed or allow us to expand the approved labeling for Ranexa. In addition to approving product labeling, the FDA typically reviews core promotional materials in connection with new product launches. We must obtain the FDA’s review of our key promotional materials in connection with the planned launch of Ranexa in March 2006. We do not know when the FDA will review these materials, or whether the approved materials will allow us to effectively promote Ranexa with healthcare practitioners and managed care audiences. For example, the approved product labeling states that the mechanism of action of Ranexa is unknown. As a result, our promotional materials will not be able to discuss preclinical research that suggests that Ranexa is a selective late sodium current inhibitor, which may make it difficult for us to differentiate the product in the market. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries and the market for cardiovascular drugs in particular, are intensely competitive. Ranexa, ACEON® and any of our other products that receive regulatory approval will compete with well-established, proprietary and generic cardiovascular therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years and are widely used and accepted by health care practitioners. For example, ACEON® is a member of the highly competitive class of drugs known as ACE inhibitors, including at least one branded ACE inhibitor with substantial United States sales much larger than United States sales of ACEON®. Although the FDA approved ACEON® for the treatment of patients with stable coronary artery disease to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality or nonfatal myocardial infarction in August 2005, to date there have been only minimal product sales and our marketing and promotional efforts have not materially increased overall market acceptance or resulted in any revenues to us under our co-promotion agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals. We may also be hampered in our promotional efforts by a lack of familiarity with our products among healthcare practitioners in the United States. Relatively few United States physicians served as clinical investigators in the CARISA or ERICA clinical studies of Ranexa, and so only a limited number of United States healthcare practitioners are familiar with using Ranexa, even in a clinical trial setting. In addition, the EUROPA trial that led to the FDA’s approval of ACEON® for a new indication in August 2005 was conducted entirely in Europe, and United States practitioners have relatively little experience using ACEON® for this indication. In addition to direct competition, our products will also have to compete against the promotional efforts of other products in order to be noticed by physicians and patients. The level of promotional effort in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical markets has increased substantially. Market acceptance of our products will be affected by the level of promotional effort that we are able to provide for our products. The level of our promotional efforts will depend in part on our ability to train, deploy and retain an effective sales and marketing organization, as well as our ability to secure additional financing. We cannot assure you that the level of promotional effort that we will be able to provide for our products or the levels of additional financing we are able to secure, if any, will be sufficient to obtain market acceptance of our products. 26 Table of Contents We expect to launch Ranexa in the United States in March 2006 and we continue to co-promote ACEON in the United States, which requires significant capital expenditures. If we are not successful in achieving market acceptance for these products, the significant amounts of capital we are spending in connection with their commercialization would be lost. We are spending significant amounts of capital in connection with the planned launch of Ranexa in the United States in March 2006. The level of our operating expenses increased in the second half of 2005 in connection with our pre-commercialization efforts relating to Ranexa. We expect the level of our operating expenses to continue to increase substantially in connection with the planned launch of Ranexa in March 2006. Our Ranexa commercialization efforts include further building our sales and marketing infrastructure, building inventory of the product and product samples, making distribution arrangements with wholesalers including expensive launch-related arrangements to stock Ranexa at the retail pharmacy level, sales training, increased marketing research and communication efforts, deployment of our national cardiovascular specialty sales force of approximately 250 personnel in connection with initial promotional efforts, and additional hiring. Our previous and ongoing investments in the product would be lost if we cannot achieve market acceptance and revenues for the product. We spent approximately $137.2 million on sales and marketing activities from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005, which primarily related to Ranexa and ACEON®. The loss of these investments would harm our business, increase our cash requirements and result in continued operating losses and a substantial decline in our stock price. Even after a product has been approved for commercial sale, if we or others identify previously known or unknown side effects, approval could be withdrawn or sales of the product could be significantly reduced. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects for Ranexa or ACEON® or any products perceived to be similar to Ranexa or ACEON®, or if any already known side effect becomes a more serious concern than was previously thought on the basis of new data or other developments, or if manufacturing problems occur, then in any of those circumstances: • sales of the product may decrease significantly; • regulatory approval for the product may be withdrawn; • we may decide to, or be required to, withdraw the product from the market; • we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians and pharmacists; • reformulation of the product, additional preclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling of the product or changes to or re-approvals of manufacturing facilities may be required; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • investigations and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of Ranexa or ACEON® and increase our commercialization costs and expenses, and could mean that our ability to commercialize the product is seriously impaired or stopped altogether. Unlike other treatments for angina currently being used in the United States, the approved labeling for Ranexa warns of the risk that the product may cause a type of fatal arrhythmia known to healthcare practitioners as torsades de pointes. This fatal arrhythmia occurs in the general population of patients with cardiovascular 27 Table of Contents disease at a low rate of incidence that is not well understood, and can be triggered by a wide variety of factors including genetic predisposition and medical conditions such as low blood potassium levels or slow heart rate that are not uncommon among patients with cardiovascular disease. It is well known that some drugs cause this fatal arrhythmia, although to date Ranexa has not been shown to have caused torsades de pointes. Now that Ranexa is approved in the United States, we expect that the product will start to be used in a wider population than in previous controlled clinical studies of the product, including in patients with chronic angina who may be predisposed to the occurrence of torsades de pointes or other fatal arrhythmias and may be receiving other medications for a variety of conditions. In this potential patient population it is inevitable that some patients will die suddenly, and it is likely that in at least some of these cases there will not be sufficient information available to rule out Ranexa as a contributing factor or cause of mortality. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners and/or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of Ranexa is associated with torsades de pointes or sudden death, which could mean that our ability to commercialize Ranexa could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, and we may become subject to product liability litigation and other claims against us. This could harm our business, increase our cash requirements and result in continued operating losses and a substantial decline in our stock price. If we are unable to compete successfully in our market, it will harm our business. There are many existing drug therapies approved for the treatment of the diseases targeted by our products, and we are also aware of companies that are developing new potential drug products that will compete in the same markets as our products. Ranexa competes with several well established classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the United States, including generic and/or branded beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long acting nitrates, and additional potential angina therapies may be under development. Surgical treatments such as coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous coronary intervention can be another option for angina patients. ACEON® is a member of the highly competitive class of drugs known as ACE inhibitors, many of which are generic. For the indication of coronary artery disease, there is at least one branded ACE inhibitor with substantial United States sales; for the treatment of hypertension there are other drug classes that are used to treat hypertension, including angiotensin receptor blockers, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and thiazide-type diuretics. In the United States, there are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents, and at least two potential A2A-adenosine receptor agonist compounds under development, that could compete with regadenoson, if approved. There are also numerous generic and/or branded drugs in the United States for the treatment of acute atrial arrhythmias, and at least one A1-adenosine receptor agonist compound that could compete with tecadenoson may be under development. In addition, there are many therapeutic drug classes approved for the treatment of asthma, including steroids, beta-2 agonists, cromolyn, theophylline, and anti-IgE, all of which could compete with CVT-6883, if approved. We are also aware of companies that are developing products that may compete with our other product candidates and programs. There may also be potentially competitive products of which we are not aware. Many of these potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and sales resources. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier or obtaining approvals from regulatory authorities more rapidly or broadly than either we or our strategic partners are able to achieve. Potential competitors may also develop products that are safer, more effective or have other potential advantages compared to those under development or proposed to be developed by us and our strategic partners. In addition, research, development and commercialization efforts by others could render our technology or our products obsolete or non-competitive. Failure to obtain adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations could materially adversely affect our future business, market acceptance of our products, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to market and sell our products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third party payers and governmental health administration authorities are increasingly attempting to limit and/or 28 Table of Contents regulate the price of medical products and services, especially branded prescription drugs. For example, under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D, and the various entities providing such coverage will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers, which may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices and may limit drug access. The full impact of this new law on our business as it relates to Ranexa and ACEON® in the United States is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. These changes in Medicare reimbursement could have a negative effect on the revenue, if any, that we derive from sales of any of our products. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States will put additional pressure on the pricing and usage of any of our products, which may adversely affect product sales and revenues. Even if our products are deemed to be safe and effective by regulatory authorities, third party payers and governmental health administration authorities may direct patients to generic products or other lower-priced therapeutic alternatives, and there are an increasing number of such alternatives available. Some third-party payers establish a preference for selected products in a category and provide higher levels of formulary acceptance and coverage for preferred products and higher co-payments for non-preferred products. The current level of reimbursement for ACEON® is low, and we may not be able to increase reimbursement levels or product revenues. We plan to launch Ranexa in the United States in March 2006, and significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. As a result, we cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for Ranexa or how the product will be positioned relative to other antianginal products and therapies. In February 2006, we set the wholesale acquisition cost of Ranexa at $5.50 per day for the daily starting dose of 500 mg tablet twice daily. This represents a higher price than the cost of any other antianginal drug currently on the market in the United States. Our pricing for Ranexa may result in less favorable reimbursement and formulary positioning for the product under government programs or by third-party payers, and may result in more or higher barriers to patient access to the product such as higher copayments or prior authorization requirements. If we fail to obtain favorable reimbursement or formulary positioning for Ranexa or ACEON®, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer these products. This would result in lower product sales and lower product revenues. For sales of any of our products in Europe, if approved, we will be required to seek reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country basis. We cannot be certain that any products approved for marketing will be considered cost effective, that reimbursement will be available, or that allowed reimbursement will be adequate in these markets. In addition, payers’ reimbursement policies could adversely affect our or any strategic partners’ ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Our customer base will be highly concentrated. We expect that our principal customers will be a small number of wholesale drug distributors. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. Three large wholesale distributors, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, control a significant share of the market in the United States. Our ability to distribute our products, including Ranexa, to retail pharmacy chains and to recognize revenues on a timely basis will be substantially dependent on our ability to enter into commercially reasonable agreements with each of these wholesale distributors. The loss or bankruptcy of any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition and our ability to distribute our products. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may affect the use of our products. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the health 29 Table of Contents care and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing therapies. These organizations have in the past made recommendations about our products or products that compete with our products, such as the recommendations of the Joint National Congress relating to the treatment of hypertension and the treatment guidelines of the American Heart Association. These sorts of recommendations or guidelines could result in decreased use of our products. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that any such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual violation of healthcare statutes such as fraud and abuse laws, and our corporate compliance programs can never guarantee that we are in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. Our commercialization efforts in the United States are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to pharmaceutical promotion and healthcare fraud and abuse, including the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, and federal and state anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to offer or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a drug. The federal government has published many regulations relating to the anti-kickback statutes, including numerous safe harbors or exemptions for certain arrangements. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products, and those of our strategic partners such as Solvay Pharmaceuticals and Astellas, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws and regulations. It may be difficult to determine whether or not our activities, or those of our strategic partners, comply with these complex legal requirements and regulations. Violations are punishable by significant criminal and/or civil fines and other penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion of the product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to investigate or make allegations against us or any of our employees, or sanction or convict us or any of our employees, of violating any of these laws, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. Similarly, in the case of Solvay Pharmaceuticals under our co-promotion arrangement with respect to ACEON®, or in the case of Astellas under our license and collaboration arrangement with respect to regadenoson, if either of these strategic partners becomes subject to investigation, allegation or sanction, our ability to continue to commercialize the product and/or obtain revenues from its sale could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether. Our activities and those of our strategic partners could be subject to challenge for many reasons, including the broad scope and complexity of these laws and regulations, the difficulties in interpreting and applying these legal requirements, and the high degree of prosecutorial resources and attention being devoted to the biopharmaceutical industry by law enforcement authorities. During the last few years, numerous biopharmaceutical companies have paid multi-million dollar fines and entered into burdensome settlement agreements for alleged violation of these requirements, and other companies are under active investigation. Although we have developed and implemented corporate and field compliance programs as part of our efforts to commercialize Ranexa and ACEON®, we cannot assure you that we or our employees, directors or agents are or will be in compliance with all laws and regulations or that we will not come under investigation, allegation or sanction. If we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including criminal and/or civil prosecution, substantial criminal and/or civil penalties, exclusion of the approved product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), and costly litigation. In addition, our efforts to comply with these laws will be time-consuming and expensive. Under our co-promotion arrangement relating to ACEON®, Solvay Pharmaceuticals can terminate the agreement due to our uncured material breach, which could include our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to our commercialization efforts for ACEON®. 30 Table of Contents The successful commercialization of our products is substantially dependent on the successful and timely performance of our strategic collaborative partners and other vendors, over whom we have little control. Our key collaborative partnerships, collaborations and licenses include the following: • Roche Palo Alto LLC—a 1996 license agreement under which we received rights to develop and commercialize ranolazine for the treatment of angina and other cardiovascular indications; • Biogen Idec Inc. (formerly Biogen Inc.)—a 1997 license agreement under which we licensed rights to Biogen to develop and commercialize products produced based on our A1 adenosine receptor antagonist patents or technologies, which Biogen Idec has labeled its Adentri™ program; • Astellas US LLC—a 2000 collaboration and license agreement to develop and commercialize second generation pharmacologic cardiac stress agents, including regadenoson; and • Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc.—a 2004 co-promotion agreement under which we agreed to co-promote ACEON® in the United States with Solvay Pharmaceuticals. The successful commercialization of our ACEON®, regadenoson and Adentri™ programs will depend significantly on the efforts of our collaborative partners for each of these programs. For instance, under our co-promotion agreement for ACEON® in the United States, Solvay Pharmaceuticals is responsible for the manufacture, distribution (including pricing and managed care contracting), development and maintenance of all regulatory approval of ACEON® in the United States. Solvay Pharmaceuticals is also responsible for promoting ACEON® to primary care physicians in the United States, and is responsible for supplying product samples to support all promotional efforts. Under our agreement with Astellas, Astellas is responsible for the commercial manufacture and distribution, marketing and sales of regadenoson in North America, if approved. Biogen Idec has sole responsibility for all worldwide development and commercialization of products from the Adentri™ program, if any. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that any of our strategic partners devote to these programs. Conflicting priorities may cause any of our strategic partners to deemphasize our programs or to pursue competing technologies or product candidates. In addition, these arrangements are each complex, and disputes may arise between the parties, which could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of the products involved. If Solvay Pharmaceuticals fails to perform its obligations under the co-promotion agreement with us relating to ACEON®, we would receive less or even no revenues under the arrangement. If Astellas fails to successfully manufacture, market and sell regadenoson in North America, if approved, we would receive less or even no revenues under the arrangement. If Biogen Idec fails to successfully develop and commercialize any product from the Adentri™ program, we would receive no revenues under the arrangement. To the extent that we enter into additional co-promotion or other commercialization arrangements in the future, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of third parties over which we will have little control. Our successful commercialization of Ranexa and ACEON® will also depend on the performance of numerous third-party vendors over which we have little control. For example, we rely entirely on third-party vendors to manufacture and distribute Ranexa in the United States, to administer our physician sampling programs relating to Ranexa and ACEON®, and to perform some of our sales and marketing operations functions, such as our product call centers As a result, our level of success in commercializing Ranexa and ACEON® depends significantly on the efforts of these third parties, as well as our strategic partners. If these third parties fail to perform as expected, our ability to market and promote Ranexa and ACEON® would be significantly compromised. 31 Table of Contents We have no manufacturing facilities and will depend on third parties to manufacture our products. We do not operate, and have no current plans to develop, any manufacturing facilities, and we currently lack the resources and capability to manufacture any of our products ourselves on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we are dependent on corporate partners, licensees, contract manufacturers and other third parties for the manufacturing of clinical and commercial scale quantities of all of our products, including Ranexa and ACEON®. For example, under our co-promotion agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Solvay Pharmaceuticals is responsible for the manufacture and distribution of ACEON®, and the manufacture of product samples, and in turn is dependent on third parties for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the drug product. We also have entered into several agreements with third party manufacturers relating to Ranexa, including for commercial-scale active pharmaceutical ingredient, bulk tablet manufacturing, packaging and supply of a raw material component of the product. We currently rely on a single supplier at each step in the supply chain for Ranexa. In addition, under our agreement with Astellas relating to regadenoson, Astellas is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of regadenoson, if approved, and in turn is dependent on third parties for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the drug product. Our ability to commercialize Ranexa and our ability to co-promote ACEON® are each entirely dependent on these arrangements, and would be affected by any delays or difficulties in performance on the part of our contract manufacturers for Ranexa, or Solvay Pharmaceuticals or its third party manufacturers in the case of ACEON®. For example, in the case of our Ranexa supply chain, in which we are reliant on a single manufacturer at each step in the production cycle for the product, the failure of any manufacturers to supply product on a timely basis or at all, or to manufacture our product in compliance with product specifications or applicable quality or regulatory requirements, or to manufacture product or samples in volumes sufficient to meet market demand, would adversely affect our ability to commercialize Ranexa. Furthermore, we and our third party manufacturers, laboratories and clinical testing sites may be required to pass pre-approval inspections of facilities by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities before obtaining marketing approvals, including for any new drug application (if any) relating to one of our other product candidates, such as regadenoson. Even after product approval, our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers remain subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. We cannot guarantee that any such inspections will not result in compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval or negatively impact our ability to maintain product approval, or require us to expend money or other resources to correct. In addition, we or our third party manufacturers are required to adhere to stringent federal regulations setting forth current good manufacturing practices for pharmaceuticals. These regulations require, among other things, that we manufacture our products and maintain our records in a carefully prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control activities. In addition, drug product manufacturing facilities in California must be licensed by the State of California, and other states may have comparable requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses when and where needed. Any delay in the development of any of our drug product candidates will harm our business. All of our product candidates in development require preclinical studies and/or clinical trials, and will require regulatory review and approval, prior to marketing and sale. Any delays in the development of our product candidates would delay our ability to seek and obtain regulatory approvals, increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. One potential cause of a delay in product development is a delay in clinical trials. Many factors could delay completion of our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa or our other clinical trials, including, without limitation: • slower than anticipated patient enrollment; • difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials; and • adverse events occurring during the clinical trials. 32 Table of Contents Our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial is a large, ongoing clinical study of Ranexa, in which the completion and duration of the study is based on achieving specified numbers of events. We expect to enroll approximately 6,500 patients in this trial. Although we presently expect preliminary results from the trial at the end of 2006 or in the first quarter of 2007, the completion of our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial may be delayed due to continued slower than anticipated event rates or enrollment. The MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa is a large and expensive clinical study, and any delay in its conduct or completion would adversely affect our statements of operations and increase the period of uncertainty about its results. We may be unable to maintain our proposed schedules for investigational new drug applications, which are regulatory filings made by a drug sponsor to the FDA to allow human clinical testing in the United States, and equivalent foreign applications and clinical protocol submissions to the FDA and other regulatory agencies. In addition, we may be unable to maintain our proposed schedules for initiation and completion of clinical trials as a result of FDA or other regulatory action or other factors, such as lack of funding, the occurrence of adverse safety effects or other complications that may arise in any phase of a clinical trial program. Furthermore, even if our clinical trials are completed on schedule, the data and results may differ from those obtained in preclinical studies and earlier clinical trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain the necessary marketing approvals. For example, although our previous phase 3 trials of Ranexa had positive results, our on-going MERLIN TIMI-36 study of Ranexa is in a different patient population for a different potential use with different entry criteria. These factors, other differences and the inherent variability of clinical trial results mean that there can be no assurance that we will obtain positive results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 study. Another potential example of variability in clinical study results concerns our regadenoson program, for which we expect to obtain results from the second of two phase 3 studies that have an identical study design. The design of our identical phase 3 studies is different from the designs of our prior clinical studies of regadenoson. The two phase 3 studies are non-inferiority studies, using a complex comparison based on multiple readings of reperfusion imaging scans by various blinded human scan readers. The study design for phase 3 of the clinical program is unusual, and there is an inherently high degree of variability in the reading of reperfusion imaging scans (meaning that a single scan reviewed by two different readers, or even a single scan reviewed twice by the same reader, can produce different results). While we obtained positive results from the first completed phase 3 study in the clinical program, there can be no assurance that we will obtain positive results from the second phase 3 study of regadenoson when it is completed, or that the results of the first phase 3 study of regadenoson will be in any way predictive of the results of the second phase 3 study. Moreover, even if both phase 3 studies of regadenoson are positive, there can be no assurance that the data will sufficient to obtain marketing approval for regadenoson in the United States or abroad. All of our products in development require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delay in the regulatory review or approval of any of our products in development will harm our business. All of our products in development require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delays in the regulatory review or approval of our products in development would delay market launch, increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Furthermore, this approval process is extremely complex, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to maintain our proposed schedules for the submission of any new drug application in the United States or any marketing authorization application or other foreign applications for any of our products. We may not be able to maintain our proposed schedules for the submission of any supplemental new drug application (or equivalent foreign application) seeking changes to product labeling, manufacturing or other aspects of the NDA or foreign 33 Table of Contents marketing authorization for Ranexa or other approved products (if any). If we submit any new drug application or supplemental new drug application to the FDA, the FDA must decide whether to either accept or reject the submission for filing. We cannot be certain that any of these submissions will be accepted for filing and reviewed by the FDA, or that our marketing authorization applications to European or other foreign regulatory authorities will be validated for review by those authorities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to respond to any regulatory requests during the review period in a timely manner without delaying potential regulatory action. We also cannot be certain that any of our products or proposed product changes (such as labeling changes proposed in any supplemental new drug application) will be approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Delays in approvals or rejections of regulatory approvals in the United States or foreign markets may be based upon many factors, including regulatory requests for additional analyses, reports, clinical inspections, clinical and/or preclinical data and/or studies, regulatory questions regarding data or results, unfavorable review by advisory committees, changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and/or the emergence of new information regarding our products or other products. For example, in 2005 we withdrew our marketing authorization application for ranolazine filed with the European Medicines Agency, because these regulatory authorities requested additional clinical pharmacokinetic data regarding the product prior to approval. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to different interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory review or approval of any of our products. For example, some drugs that prolong the QT interval, which is a measurement of specific electrical activity in the heart as captured on an electrocardiogram, carry an increased risk of serious cardiac rhythm disturbances that can cause a type of fatal arrhythmia known as torsades de pointes, while other drugs that prolong the QT interval do not carry an increased risk of this fatal arrhythmia. Small but statistically significant mean increases in the QT interval were observed in clinical trials of Ranexa. QT interval measurements are not precise and there are different methods of calculating the corrected QTc interval, which is the QT interval as adjusted for heart rate. This uncertainty in the measurement and calculation of the QT and QTc intervals can contribute to different interpretations of these data. The clinical significance of the changes in QTc interval observed in clinical trials of Ranexa remains unclear, and other clinical and preclinical data do not suggest that Ranexa significantly pre-disposes patients to this fatal arrhythmia. Regulatory authorities may interpret the Ranexa data differently, which could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals of Ranexa. For example, when acting on the original new drug application for Ranexa in October 2003, the FDA did not approve the product and indicated that additional clinical information would be needed prior to approval, in part because of the FDA’s safety concerns in light of the effect of Ranexa to prolong the QTc interval. We conducted an additional clinical study and submitted an amendment to the new drug application for Ranexa to the FDA in July 2005. In January 2006, the FDA approved Ranexa for use in chronic angina, with product labeling which indicates that because of the potential safety risk of QT prolongation caused by Ranexa, the product should be reserved for use in chronic angina patients who have not achieved an adequate response with other antianginal drugs, and should be used in combination with other common antianginal treatments, specifically amlodipine, beta-blockers or nitrates. Foreign regulatory authorities may have similar or other concerns which would delay or prevent the approval of Ranexa or any of our other product candidates outside the United States. Similarly, as a routine part of the evaluation of any potential drug, clinical studies are generally conducted to assess the potential for drug-drug interactions that could impact potential product safety. While we believe that the interactions between Ranexa and other drugs have been well characterized as part of our clinical development programs, the data are subject to regulatory interpretation and an unfavorable interpretation by regulatory authorities could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals of Ranexa. Furthermore, regulatory attitudes towards the data and results required to demonstrate safety and efficacy can change over time and can be affected by many factors, such as the emergence of new information (including on other products), changing policies and agency funding, staffing and leadership. We cannot be sure whether future changes in the regulatory environment will be favorable or unfavorable to our business prospects. 34 Table of Contents In addition, the environment in which our regulatory submissions may be reviewed changes over time. For example, average review times at the FDA for marketing approval applications can fluctuate substantially, and we cannot predict the review time for any of our submissions with any regulatory authorities. In addition, review times can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and funding levels and statutory, regulatory and policy changes. We intend to file applications for regulatory approval of our products in various foreign jurisdictions from time to time in the future. However, we have not received any regulatory approvals in any foreign jurisdiction for the commercial sale of any of our products. There are potentially important substantive differences in reviews of approval applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions such as Europe. For example, preclinical and/or clinical trials and data that are accepted by the FDA in support of a new drug application may not be accepted by foreign regulatory authorities, and trials and data acceptable to foreign regulatory authorities in support of a product approval may not be accepted by the FDA. In addition, approval of a product in one jurisdiction is no guarantee that any other regulatory authorities will also approve it. While we have negotiated a special protocol assessment agreement with the FDA relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study of Ranexa, this agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review of the study or the product, including any approvals or expanded product labeling. The FDA’s special protocol assessment, or SPA, process creates a written agreement between the sponsoring company and the FDA regarding clinical trial design, clinical endpoints, study conduct, data analyses and other clinical trial issues. It is intended to provide assurance that if pre-specified trial results are achieved, they may serve as the primary basis for an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application. However, the SPA agreement is not a guarantee of an approval of a product or of any permissible claims about the product. In particular, it is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns unrecognized at the time the SPA agreement is entered into become evident, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise, or if the sponsor company fails to comply with the agreed upon trial protocols. Even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be changed by the sponsor company or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from any study that is the subject of the SPA agreement. In July 2004, we announced that we reached written agreement with the FDA on an SPA agreement for the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa, which could support potential approval of Ranexa as first-line therapy for patients suffering from chronic angina if treatment with Ranexa is not associated with an adverse trend in death or arrhythmia compared to placebo, even if statistical significance on the primary study endpoint is not achieved, provided that we also successfully complete a clinical evaluation of higher doses of Ranexa. MERLIN TIMI-36 could also result in approval for Ranexa for the treatment and long-term prevention of acute coronary syndromes, if the study meets its primary endpoint. We cannot assure you that the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial will succeed or allow us to expand the approved labeling for Ranexa. The MERLIN TIMI-36 study will enroll approximately 6,500 patients, although the study’s duration and completion is based on achieving specified numbers of events. An independent data safety monitoring board overseeing the study may end the study early with no notice due to results observed by the board during one of its periodic safety assessments of the study. If the MERLIN TIMI-36 study shows that treatment of Ranexa is associated with an adverse trend in death or arrhythmia compared to placebo, our ability to commercialize Ranexa would be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, and we may become subject to product liability litigation and other claims against us. This would adversely affect our cash position, results of operations and our stock price. In connection with our SPA agreement relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study, we expect that the FDA will review our compliance with the protocol under our SPA agreement. We also expect that the FDA will conduct inspections of some of the approximately 500 MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical sites, most of which are located in 17 foreign countries. We do not know whether the clinical sites will pass such FDA inspections, and negative inspection results could significantly delay or prevent any potential expansion of the approved labeling 35 Table of Contents for Ranexa. In addition, the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial involves the use of an intravenous formulation of ranolazine that the FDA has not approved. We do not know how the FDA will interpret the commitments under the SPA agreement relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study, how it will interpret the data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study, or whether Ranexa will receive any additional approvals or any expanded product labeling as a result of this SPA agreement with the FDA or the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study. As a result, significant uncertainty remains regarding the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial. If we are unable to satisfy governmental regulations relating to the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, we may be subject to significant FDA sanctions. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and in other countries. Failure to comply with FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, without limitation: • warning letters and other regulatory authority communications objecting to matters such as promotional materials and requiring corrective action such as corrective communications to healthcare practitioners; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; and • FDA refusal to review or approve pending new drug applications for unapproved products or supplemental new drug applications for previously approved products, and/or similar rejections of marketing applications or supplements by foreign regulatory authorities. If we are unable to attract and retain collaborators, licensors and licensees, the development of our products could be delayed and our future capital requirements could increase substantially. We may not be able to retain current or attract new corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others. Our business strategy requires us to enter into various arrangements with these parties, and we are dependent upon the success of these parties in performing their obligations. If we fail to enter into and maintain these arrangements, the development and/or commercialization of our products would be delayed. We may be unable to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products or we might have to fund development of a particular product candidate internally. If we have to fund the development and commercialization of substantially all of our products internally, our future capital requirements will increase substantially. The collaborative arrangements that we may enter into in the future may place responsibility on the strategic partner for preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing and preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval of potential pharmaceutical products. For example, under our agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Solvay Pharmaceuticals holds the new drug application for ACEON®, and is responsible for maintaining FDA approval of ACEON® in the United States including all product manufacturing. If Solvay Pharmaceuticals experiences manufacturing difficulties relating to the product or is not successful in maintaining FDA approval for ACEON®, this would increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. 36 Table of Contents Under our arrangements, we or our strategic partners may also have to meet performance milestones. If we fail to meet our obligations under our arrangements, our partners could terminate their arrangements or we could suffer other consequences such as losing our rights to the compounds at issue. For example, under our agreement with Astellas relating to regadenoson, we are responsible for development activities and must meet development milestones in order to receive development milestone payments. Under our license agreement with Roche relating to Ranexa, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize ranolazine for angina, and have related milestone payment obligations. Under our co-promotion agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals, we are required to satisfy specified minimum marketing and promotion commitments relating to ACEON®. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to our programs. If a partner fails to successfully develop or commercialize any product, product launch would be delayed. In addition, our partners may pursue competing technologies or product candidates. In addition, arrangements in our industry are extremely complex, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights, financial provisions, and other provisions such as the parties’ respective rights with respect to decision-making. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to these issues, such as the ownership of rights to any technology developed with or by third parties. These and other possible disagreements between us and our partners could lead to delays in the research, development or commercialization of product candidates, or in the amendment or termination of one or more of our license and collaboration agreements. These disputes could also result in litigation or arbitration, which is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to complete development of any products and we may be put at a competitive disadvantage; and if we are involved in an intellectual property rights dispute, we may not prevail and may be subject to significant liabilities or required to license rights from a third party, or cease one or more product programs. Our success will depend to a significant degree on, among other things, our ability to: • obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; • maintain trade secrets; • obtain trademarks; and • operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. However, we cannot be certain that any patent will issue from any of our pending or future patent applications, that any issued patent will not be lost through an interference or opposition proceeding, reexamination request, litigation or otherwise, that any issued patent will be sufficient to protect our technology and investments or prevent the entry of generic or other competition into the marketplace, or that we will be able to obtain any extension of any patent beyond its initial term. The following table shows the expiration dates in the United States for the primary compound patents for our key products and product candidates: Product/Product Candidate United StatesPrimary CompoundPatent Expiration Ranexa 2003* ACEON® 2009† Regadenoson 2019 * Because ranolazine is a new chemical entity, under applicable United States laws we expect exclusivity as a new chemical entity for five years from the date of the first FDA approval of Ranexa for the ranolazine compound, which was in January 2006. As a result, we expect this exclusivity for the ranolazine compound 37 Table of Contents to last until January 2011. In addition, the United States compound patent relating to Ranexa expired in 2003, but we have received several one-year interim patent term extensions under the Hatch-Waxman Act, and we reapplied on a permanent basis for patent term extension after the FDA approved Ranexa in January 2006. We expect to be able to receive an extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which we anticipate will extend the patent protection to May 2008 for the approved product, which is the Ranexa extended-release tablet, for the use in chronic angina approved by the FDA in January 2006. Also, we have received issued patents from the United States Patent and Trademark Office claiming various sustained release formulations of ranolazine and methods of using sustained release formulations of ranolazine, including the formulation tested in our Phase 3 trials for Ranexa, for the treatment of chronic angina. These patents expire in 2019. After January 2011, patent term extension and new chemical entity exclusivity under the laws of the United States will no longer be available, and unless we are able to obtain additional exclusivity relating to a successful supplemental new drug application and such additional exclusivity runs past January 2011, we will be entirely reliant on our then-issued patents claiming uses and formulations of Ranexa to continue to protect our investments in Ranexa’s development and commercialization. It is possible that one or more competitors could develop competing products that do not infringe these patent claims, or could succeed in invalidating these issued patent claims, or that these patents could be lost through an interference or opposition proceeding, reexamination, litigation or otherwise. Generic challenges and related patent litigation are common in the biopharmaceutical industry. † Perindopril is covered by an issued patent that covers the compound and expires in November 2009. In addition to these issued patents, we seek to file patent applications pending relating to each of our potential products, and we seek trade name and trademark protection for our commercialized products such as Ranexa. Although patent applications filed in the United States are now published 18 months after their filing date, as provided by federal legislation enacted in 1999, this statutory change applies only to applications filed on or after November 2000. Applications filed in the United States prior to this date are maintained in secrecy until a patent issues. As a result, we can never be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. There may be third party patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property relevant to our compounds, products, services, development efforts and technology which are not known to us and that block or compete with our compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology. For example, competitors may have filed applications for, or may have received or in the future may receive, patents, trademarks and/or other proprietary rights relating to compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology that block or compete with ours. In addition, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings determine the priority of invention and, thus, the right to a patent for the technology in the United States. We may also become involved in opposition proceedings in connection with foreign patent filings. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents or trademarks issued to us, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of us or third parties. Litigation, interference and opposition proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive, time-consuming and risky to pursue, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in any such case. We also must not infringe patents or trademarks of others that might cover our compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology. If third parties own or have proprietary rights to technology or other intellectual property that we need in our product development and commercialization efforts, we will need to obtain licenses to those rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on economically reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any necessary licenses, we may be unable to complete product development and commercialization. We also rely on proprietary technology and information, including trade secrets, to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we seek to protect all of our proprietary technology and information, in part by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators, advisors and corporate partners, these 38 Table of Contents agreements may be breached. We cannot assure you that the parties to these agreements will not breach them or that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or information. In addition, we routinely grant publication rights to our scientific collaborators. Although we may retain the right to delay publication to allow for the preparation and filing of a patent application covering the subject matter of the proposed publication, we cannot assure you that our collaborators will honor these agreements. Publication prior to the filing of a patent application would mean that we would lose the ability to patent the technology outside the United States, and third parties or competitors could exploit the technology. We also may not have adequate remedies to protect our proprietary technology and information, including trade secrets. As a result, third parties may gain access to our trade secrets and other proprietary technology, or our trade secrets and other proprietary technology or information may become public. In addition, it is possible that our proprietary technology or information will otherwise become known or be discovered independently by our competitors. In addition, we may also become subject to claims that we are using or misappropriating trade secrets of others without having the right to do so. Such claims can result in litigation, which can be expensive, time-consuming and risky to defend. Litigation and disputes related to intellectual property matters are widespread in the biopharmaceutical industry. Although to date no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our compounds, products, services, technology or other matters in the future. If they do, we may not prevail and, as a result, we may be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, we may be required to license the disputed rights from the third parties or we may be required to cease using the technology or developing or selling the compounds or products at issue. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on economically reasonable terms, if at all. Any intellectual property-related claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, may be time-consuming, expensive and risky to defend or prosecute. If we assert a patent against an alleged infringer and the alleged infringer is successful in invalidating the patent, the protection afforded by the patent is lost. Our business depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could weaken our management team, and on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The growth of our business and our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management, research and development, sales and marketing and other operating and administrative personnel. Our key personnel include all of our executive officers and vice presidents, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge regarding one or more of our key products. We have entered into an employment agreement with our chairman and chief executive officer. We have entered into executive severance agreements with certain key personnel, and have a severance plan that covers our full-time employees. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed could limit our ability to develop and commercialize our existing and future product candidates. Such persons are in high demand and often receive competing employment offers. Our ability to attract and retain key employees in a competitive recruiting environment is dependent on our ability to offer competitive compensation packages, which typically include equity compensation such as stock option grants. Changes in laws, regulations, corporate governance standards, listing requirements and accounting treatment regarding stock options and other equity awards that we grant to employees, as well as to other common compensation features such as loans, may limit or impair our ability to be competitive in attracting and retaining key personnel. 39 Table of Contents If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation, such as the securities class action litigation that has been filed against us, our business may be harmed. We and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in August 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California captioned Crossen v. CV Therapeutics, Inc., et al. The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities, and seeks unspecified damages. As is typical in this type of litigation, several other purported securities class action lawsuits containing substantially similar allegations were filed against the defendants. In November 2003, the court appointed a lead plaintiff, and in December 2003, the court consolidated all of the securities class actions filed to date into a single action captioned In re CV Therapeutics, Inc. Securities Litigation. In January 2004, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated complaint. We and the other named defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint in March 2004. In August 2004, these motions were granted in part and denied in part. The court granted the motions to dismiss by two individual defendants, dismissing both individuals from the action with prejudice, but denied the motions to dismiss by us and the two other individual defendants. After the motion to dismiss was decided, this action entered the discovery phase, and discovery in the action is ongoing. In addition, certain of our officers and directors have been named as defendants in a derivative lawsuit filed in August 2003 in California Superior Court, Santa Clara County, captioned Kangos v. Lange, et al., which names CV Therapeutics as a nominal defendant. The plaintiff in this action is one of our stockholders who seeks to bring derivative claims on behalf of CV Therapeutics against the defendants. The lawsuit alleges breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims based on purportedly misleading statements concerning our new drug application for Ranexa. At the appropriate time, we expect to file a motion to dismiss this lawsuit due to the plaintiff’s unexcused failure to make a demand on us before filing the action. As with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation, and defending these lawsuits is likely to be costly, time-consuming and uncertain. Accordingly, no accrual has been established for these lawsuits. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business could be harmed. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could subject us to significant liability. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and pathogens, and the generation of waste products. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with additional environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. We currently do not carry insurance for hazardous materials claims. We do not know if we will be able to obtain insurance that covers hazardous materials claims on acceptable terms with adequate coverage against potential liabilities, if at all. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply in all material respects with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. There can also be no assurance that our operations, business or assets will not be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. Changes in accounting rules for stock-based compensation will adversely affect our operating results, and may adversely affect our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. We are required to adopt SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, on January 1, 2006. SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of 40 Table of Contents stock options, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights, to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. We expect that our adoption of SFAS 123R will cause our operating expenses and net loss to increase in 2006 compared to 2005, which may adversely affect our stock price. To the extent that we reduce our use of share-based payments to employees and directors in an effort to reduce our operating expenses and net loss, we may also reduce our ability to recruit, hire and retain employees. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. A growing amount of our operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Most of our foreign expenses are associated with our ongoing clinical studies, such as our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa, or the operations of our United Kingdom-based wholly owned subsidiary. We are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates in Europe and Canada. When the United States dollar weakens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the United States dollar, may adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency risks. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products harm people, and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human drugs and other therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. The approved labeling for Ranexa includes warnings regarding QT prolongation and the risk of arrhythmias and sudden death and tumor promotion. Despite these warnings, we may be subject to product liability claims in the future, including if patients on Ranexa die suddenly from arrhythmias or contract cancer. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for clinical trials testing and only limited commercial product liability insurance. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our potential products. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts. This could adversely affect our cash position and results of operations and could increase the volatility of our stock price. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance. In the event of a major earthquake in our region, our business could suffer significant and uninsured damage and loss. We currently maintain general liability, property, auto, workers’ compensation, products liability, directors’ and officers’, and employment practices insurance policies. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance with adequate levels of coverage. For example, the premiums for our directors’ and officers’ insurance policy have increased significantly, and this type of insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock and Convertible Debt Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with the attestation of the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include in annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by management of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement applies to each annual filing on Form 10-K. As we begin commercial operations, we are in the process of designing, implementing, documenting and testing new internal controls for these operations. In addition, we will become more dependent on the internal controls maintained by our collaborative partners. If we are not successful in implementing these new internal controls for commercial operations, or if our collaborative partners fail to maintain adequate internal controls on which we rely to prepare our financial statements, our management may determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. In addition, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, including the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may be unable to attest to management’s assessment or may be unable to issue an unqualified attestation report. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Within the last 12 months, our common stock has traded between $19.15 and $29.79 per share. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Announcements and other events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. We may have no control over information announced by third parties, such as our corporate partners or our competitors, which may impact our stock price. Other announcements and events that can impact the market price of the shares of our common stock include, without limitation: • results of our clinical trials and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; • achievement of other research or development milestones, such as completion of enrollment of a clinical trial or making a regulatory filing; • our operating results; • our product sales and product revenues; • adverse developments regarding the safety and efficacy of our products, our product candidates, or third-party products that are similar to our products or our product candidates; • developments in our relationships with corporate partners; 42 Table of Contents • developments affecting our corporate partners; • government regulations, reimbursement changes and governmental investigations or audits related to us or to our products; • changes in regulatory policy or interpretation; • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • changes in the ratings of our securities by securities analysts; • operating results or other developments that do not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • purchases or sales of our securities by investors who seek to exploit the volatility of our common stock price; • market conditions for biopharmaceutical or biotechnology stocks in general; and • general economic and market conditions. In addition, if we fail to reach an important research, development or commercialization milestone or result by a publicly expected deadline, even if by only a small margin, there could be a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, as we approach the announcement of important news, such as the results of important clinical studies, and as we announce such news, we expect the price of our common stock to be particularly volatile, and negative news would have a substantial negative impact on the price of our common stock. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $399.5 million in long-term convertible debt and aggregate annual debt service obligations on this debt of approximately $11.0 million. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations and interest expense will increase. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash and investments. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: • requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash to service our indebtedness and to pay off the principal at maturity, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash available for other purposes, including funding our commercialization efforts, research and development programs and other capital expenditures; 43 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders will experience dilution. Provisions of Delaware law and in our charter, by-laws and our rights plan may prevent or frustrate any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and may make the acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. Our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, authorized executive severance benefit agreements for our officers in the event of a change of control, and adopted a severance plan for all non-officer employees in the event of a change of control. We entered into such severance agreements with these executives. Subsequently, in November 2002 the board approved additional as well as amended executive severance agreements and a severance plan. Our rights plan and these severance arrangements may delay or prevent a change in our current management team and may render more difficult an unsolicited merger or tender offer. The following provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and our by-laws, may have the effects of delaying or preventing a change in our current management and making the acquisition of our company by a third party more difficult: • our board of directors is divided into three classes with approximately one third of the directors to be elected each year, necessitating the successful completion of two proxy contests in order for a change in control of the board to be effected; • any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders and may not be effected by a consent in writing; • advance written notice is required for a stockholder to nominate a person for election to the board of directors and for a stockholder to present a proposal at any stockholder meeting; and • directors may be removed only for cause by a vote of a majority of the stockholders and vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the directors in office. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholders’ approval, which also could make it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current management and for another company to acquire us. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which could delay a merger, tender offer or proxy contest or make a similar transaction more difficult. In general, this statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from 44 Table of Contents engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. If any or all of our existing notes and debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. Our existing convertible debt is convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at varying conversion prices, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of our existing convertible notes and convertible debentures. If any or all of our existing notes and debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. If any or all of our notes and debentures are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes or debentures the full aggregate principal amount of the notes or debentures, as applicable, then outstanding. Any such payment would have a material adverse effect on our cash position. Alternatively, from time to time we might need to modify the terms of the notes and/or the debentures prior to their maturity in ways that could be dilutive to our stockholders, assuming we can negotiate such modified terms. Available Information We are subject to the information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act and we therefore file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to our business, financial statements and other matters. The reports, proxy statements and other information we file may be inspected and copied at prescribed rates at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at Room 1024, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers like us that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The address of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Internet site is www.sec.gov. For more information about us, please visit our website at www.cvt.com. You may also obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on the day the reports or amendments are filed with or furnished to the SEC by visiting our website at www.cvt.com. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 