Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose some or all of any investment. You should carefully read the risks described below before you decide to buy any of our common stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any one of these risks or additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial. Changes in interest rates may impact our net interest margin and profitability. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Prior to June of 2004, the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates 12 times beginning January 2001. Since June 2004, the Federal Reserve has increased short-term interest rates 17 times. Between September 2007 and December 2008, the Federal Reserve lowered rates 10 times. We believe the Federal Reserve will eventually have no choice but to increase short-term interest rates which wi ll negatively impact our net interest margin due to our large portfolio of floating rate loans that are at the floor interest rate embedded in such loans. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our market area. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in Roanoke, Virginia. A prolonged economic recession in our market area could cause any of the following consequences, each of which could adversely affect our business: · Demand for our products and services could decline; · Loan delinquencies may increase; and · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase Additionally, the adverse consequences to us in the event of a continued economic recession in our market could be compounded by the fact that the majority of our commercial and real estate loans are secured by real estate located in our market area. A further decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral securing the loans would be diminished. In addition, many of our loans are dependent on the successful completion of real estate projects and the demand for the sale of homes, both of which could be adversely impacted by a continued decline in the real estate mar kets. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our market would likely impair our ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This m arket turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in 15 payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, which will require us to dedicate resources to comply with the agreement. We entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond on September 30, 2010. Among other things, the written agreement requires us to develop and submit for written plans to improve our credit risk management, revise our contingency funding plan and improve our earnings and overall condition. We have also agreed to submit capital plans to maintain sufficient capital and to refrain from declaring or paying dividends without prior regulatory approval. While subject to the written agreement, we expect that our management and board of directors will be required to focus time and attention on taking actions to comply with its terms. Recently enacted legislation, legislation enacted in the future, or any proposed federal programs subject us to increased regulation and may adversely affect us. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. We are participating in the CPP. Because we participate in the CPP, we are subject to increased regulation, and we face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our participation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. For example, participation in the CPP limits (without the consent of the U.S. Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. In addition, the EESA, contains, among other things, signifi cant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation, which may have an adverse effect on the retention or recruitment of key members of senior management. Also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the CPP increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years and we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes. Additionally, the FDIC has increased premiums on insured accounts because market developments, including the increase of failures in the banking industry, have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape and will impDodd-Frank Act all financial institutions, including Valley Financial Corporation and Valley Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act is likely to increase our regulatory compliance burden. However, it is too early for us to fully assess the full impDodd-Frank Act of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business, financial condition or results of operations in part because many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions require subsequent regulatory rulemaking. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, it creates a new financial consumer protection agency, known as the Bureau of Cons umer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”), that is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer compliance, which may increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and may restrict the financial products and services we offer to our customers. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter 16 consumer protection laws and state attorney generals may enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier 1 capital. These restrictions may limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, such as direct supervision by the Bureau, will not apply to banking organizations with less than $10 billion of assets , such as Valley Financial Corporation and Valley Bank, the changes resulting from the legislation could impact our business. These changes will require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes. We are not able to predict when or whether regulatory or legislative reforms will be enacted or what its contents will be. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of any legislation on our businesses or operations. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations and capital may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our clients relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rate; that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed our current estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance and adversely impact capital levels. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results and capital. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, it will have an adverse effect on our net income and our ability to fund growth. While the risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking, if we experience greater nonpayment levels than we anticipate, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our monitoring, procedures, and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our shareholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any loan losses will reduce the loan loss allowance. A reduction in the loan loss allowance may be restored by an increas e in our provision for loan losses. This would reduce our earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result, credit losses may occur in the future. 17 We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. We may pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past to fund loan growth. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, the volume of loan originations and the value we can recognize on the sale of mortgage and home equity loans in the secondary market. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Based on our asset/liability position at December 31, 2010, a rise in interest rates would negatively impact our net interest i ncome in the short term. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary, and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our balance sheet to minimize the effects of interest rate fluctuation on our net interest margin. Our results of operations depend on the stability of our net interest margin, which is the difference in the yield we earn on our earning assets and our cost of funds, both of which are influenced by interest rate fluctuations. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits are heavily influenced by competitive factors. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional, or national banks that have acces s to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. Our long-term goal is to maintain a balanced position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates, the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be succes sful in maintaining this position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer, which will negatively impact our earnings. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The banking business is highly competitive, and we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. Some of these competitors are subject to similar regulation, but have the advantages of larger established customer bases, higher lendin g limits, extensive branch networks, numerous ATMs, greater advertising-marketing budgets and other factors. Valley Bank encounters strong competition from a variety of bank and non-bank financial service providers. These competitors include commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, money market mutual funds, mortgage banks, leasing, and finance companies. In addition, the delivery of financial services has changed significantly with the telephone, ATM, personal computer and the Internet being used to access information and perform banking transactions. Competition in our target market area for loans to businesses, professionals, and consumers is very strong. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer certain services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services that we cannot provide. Moreover, larger institutions operating in the Roanoke market have access to borrowed funds at lower cost than we will have available. Several community banks are headquartered in our trade area. Several regional and super-regional banks, as well as a number of credit unions, also have banking offices in our market area. Competition among institutions for checking and savings deposits in the are a is intense. 18 We do not plan to pay cash dividends on common stock in the immediate, foreseeable future. In accordance with the Written Agreement, the Company is not able to make any distributions on its Preferred Stock, any interest payments on its Trust Preferred Securities, or declare any common dividends without prior approval from the Federal Reserve. In addition, the preferred stock issued to the United States Treasury under the CPP on December 12, 2008 (the “Series A Preferred Stock’) is senior to the Company’s common stock. Dividends must be paid to the Series A Preferred Stockholder before they can be paid to the common stock holder. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its Series A Preferred Stock for any period of time, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. Our ability to declare and pay cash dividends will be dependent upon, among other things, restrictions imp osed by the reserve and capital requirements of Virginia and federal banking regulations, our income and financial condition, tax considerations and general business conditions. The Series A Preferred Stock reduces both net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per share. On December 12, 2008 we closed on our agreement with the U.S. Treasury to participate in the CPP. As a part of that program, we issued 16,019 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury. During the period the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all preferred dividends have been paid in full. Additionally, while the Treasury owns shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, we are not permitted to increase the level of cash dividends on our common stock without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issu ed to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, may result in dilution to our earnings per share. The shares of our Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation or dissolution. See Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. As of December 31, 2010, we have deferred payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of three quarterly dividend periods. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. We are subject to executive compensation restrictions because of our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. We are subject to TARP rules and standards governing executive compensation, which generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers, as well as a number of other employees. The standards include (i) a requirement to recover any bonus payment to senior executive officers or certain other employees if payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance metric criteria; (ii) a prohibition on making any golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and certain other employees; (iii) a prohibition on paying or accruing any bonus payment to certain employees, except as otherwise permitted by the rules; (iv) a prohibition on maintaining any plan for senior executive officers that encourage such officers to t ake unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the Company’s value; (v) a prohibition on maintaining any employee compensation plan that encourages the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any employee; and (vi) a prohibition on providing tax gross-ups to senior executive officers and other employees. These restrictions and standards could limit our ability to recruit and retain executives. 19 The securities purchase agreement between the Company and Treasury permits Treasury to impose additional restrictions on us retroactively. The securities purchase agreement we entered into with Treasury permits Treasury to unilaterally amend the terms of the securities purchase agreement to comply with any changes in federal statutes after the date of its execution. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) imposed additional executive compensation limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including us, until we have repaid Treasury. These additional restrictions may impede our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. ARRA also permits TARP recipients to repay the Treasury without penalty or requirement that additional capital be raised, subject to Treasury’s consultation with our primary federal regulator while the terms of the securities purchase agreement required that, for a period of three years, the Series A Preferred Stock could generally only be repaid if we raised additional capital to repay the securities and such capital qualified as Tier 1 capital. Additional unilateral changes in the securities purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our legal lending limit may limit our growth. We are limited in the amount we can lend to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2010, we were permitted, by law, to lend approximately $11.4 million to any one borrower. However, we have set a “house lending limit” of approximately $7.9 million. This amount is significantly less than many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. Our operations depend upon third party vendors that perform services for us. We outsource many of our operating and banking functions, including our data processing function, our item processing and the interchange and transmission services for our ATM network. As such, our success and our ability to expand our operations depend on the services provided by these third parties. Disputes with these third parties can adversely affect our operations. We may not be able to engage appropriate vendors to adequately service our needs, and the vendors that we engage may not be able to perform successfully. We depend on the services of our key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel may disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to operate profitably may be dependent on our ability to implement various technologies into our operations. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking and tele-banking. Our ability to compete successfully in our market may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. If we are not able to afford such technologies, properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies, or properly train our staff to use such technologies, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 20 If we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We may in the future issue additional stock, any or all of which will dilute your percentage ownership and, possibly, the value of your shares. Our board of directors has the authority to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued common shares without prior shareholder approval and without allowing the shareholders the right to purchase their pro rata portion of such shares. This includes shares authorized to be issued under our equity incentive plans. The issuance of any new common shares will dilute your percentage ownership, and could dilute the value of your shares. There is a limited trading market for our common stock; it may be difficult to sell our shares after you have purchased them. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “VYFC.” The volume of trading activity in our stock is relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such market will continue, or that you will be able to sell your shares at or above your purchase price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 