Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be unable to increase sales or identify suitable acquisition candidates. Our ability to increase sales depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of existing products, the successful introduction of new products, growth of consumer discretionary spending, our ability to recruit new independent sales consultants, sourcing of raw materials and demand-driven increases in production and distribution capacity. Business in all of our segments is driven by consumer preferences. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that our current or future products will maintain or achieve market acceptance. Our sales and earnings results can be negatively impacted by the worldwide economic environment, particularly the United States, Canadian and European economies. There can be no assurances that our financial results will not be materially adversely affected by these factors in the future. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions, and we continue to consider additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurances that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on terms favorable to us, finance acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired operations. We are affected by risks associated with international sales and foreign-sourced products. Our international sales growth rate has outpaced that of our United States growth rate in recent years. Moreover, we source a portion of our products in all of our business segments from independent manufacturers in the Pacific Rim, Europe and Mexico. For these reasons, we are subject to the risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates; economic or political instability; transportation costs and delays; difficulty in maintaining quality control; restrictive governmental actions; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States, Canada and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes); and the trade and tax laws of other nations. We may be unable to respond to changes in consumer preferences. Our ability to properly manage our inventories is an important factor in our operations. The nature of our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our ability to meet future product demand in all of our business segments will depend upon our success in sourcing 6 adequate supplies of our products; bringing new production and distribution capacity on line in a timely manner; improving our ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly; improving customer service-oriented management information systems; and training, motivating and managing new employees. The failure of any of the above could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are dependent upon sales by independent consultants. A significant portion of our products are marketed and sold through the direct selling method of distribution, where products are primarily marketed and sold by independent consultants to consumers without the use of retail establishments. This distribution system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of independent consultants to offset frequent turnover. The recruitment and retention of independent consultants depends on the competitive environment among direct selling companies and on the general labor market, unemployment levels, economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. The motivation of our consultants depends, in large part, upon the effectiveness of our compensation and promotional programs, its competitiveness compared with other direct selling companies, the introduction of new products, and the ability to advance through the consultant ranks. Our sales are directly tied to the levels of activity of our consultants, which is a part-time working activity for many of them. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of our consultants, the amount of average sales per party, the amount of sales per consultant and the mix of high-margin and low-margin products, and the activities and actions of our product line and our competitors. Our profitability may be affected by shortages of raw materials. Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in requirements, weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of petroleum wax, it is possible that recent fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse affect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of our products, particularly in the Direct Selling and Wholesale business segments. In recent years, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin, dyethelene glycol (DEG) and ethanol, as well as aluminum and paper, negatively impacted profitability of certain products in all three segments. We are dependent upon our key corporate management personnel. Our success depends in part on the contributions of our key corporate management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert B. Goergen, as well as the members of the Office of the Chairman: Robert H. Barghaus, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., Vice President and President, Multi-Channel Group; and Anne M. Butler, Vice President and President, PartyLite Worldwide. We do not have employment contracts with any of our key corporate management personnel, except the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nor do we maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of any of the key corporate management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Our businesses are subject to the risks from increased competition. Our business is highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide market for home expressions products is highly fragmented with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. In addition, we compete for independent sales consultants with other direct selling companies. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in all 7 of our business segments, we may face increased competition from other companies, some of which may have substantially greater financial or other resources than those available to us. Competition includes companies selling candles manufactured at lower costs outside of the United States. Moreover, certain competitors focus on a single geographic or product market and attempt to gain or maintain market share solely on the basis of price. We may be adversely affected by proposed FTC regulations. In April 2006, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that if implemented, as originally proposed, will regulate all sellers of "business opportunities" in the United States. The proposed rule, as originally proposed, would, among other things, require all sellers of business opportunities, which would likely include PartyLite and Two Sisters Gourmet, to implement a seven-day waiting period before entering into an agreement with a prospective business opportunity purchaser and provide all prospective business opportunity purchasers with substantial disclosures in writing regarding the business opportunity and the company. In March 2008, the FTC revised the proposed rulemaking to remove from the coverage of the rule certain types of direct selling companies, including PartyLite and Two Sisters Gourmet. Based on information currently available, we anticipate that the final rule may require several years to become final and effective, and may differ substantially from the rule as currently proposed. We depend upon our information technology systems. Our information technology systems depend on global communications providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit internal operations, the ability to provide customer service or the ability of customers or sales personnel to access our information systems. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. Our effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely effected by a number of factors, including: •the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; •adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; •changes in available tax credits; •changes in share-based compensation expense; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; •the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and •penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 