Item 1A. Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are beyond our ability to control or predict. Any one of such influences, or a combination, could materially affect the results of our operations and the accuracy of forward-looking statements made by us. Some important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements includes the following: Risks Relating to our Business The failure to successfully complete construction or conversion of our vessels on schedule, on budget, or at all, or to successfully utilize such vessels and the other vessels in our fleet at profitable levels could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have eight MPSVs and three platform supply vessels currently under construction. Our fleet upgrade program may result in additional vessel construction projects and/or the conversion or retrofitting of some of our existing vessels. Our construction and conversion projects may be delayed, incur cost overruns or fail to be completed as a result of factors inherent in any large construction project, including shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen 8 Table of Contents engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. Failure to complete construction or conversion of vessels would, and significant delays in completing construction or conversion of vessels could, have a material adverse effect on anticipated contract commitments or anticipated revenues with respect to such vessels. For example, certain of the charter contracts with respect to the MPSVs under construction impose financial penalties on us if those vessels are not timely delivered for operation. Further, shortages of raw materials and components resulting in significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction, conversion, or retrofit could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if such overruns or delays exceed the liquidated damages provisions in our contracts or any vessel delivery insurance we may have. In addition, customer demand for vessels currently under construction or conversion may not be as strong as we presently anticipate, and our inability to obtain contracts on anticipated terms or at all may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our fleet includes many older vessels that may require increased levels of maintenance and capital expenditures to be maintained in good operating condition, are less efficient than newer vessels, and may be subject to a higher likelihood of mechanical failure, inability to economically return to service or requirement to be scrapped. If we are unable to continue to upgrade our fleet successfully, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, the average age of our vessels was 19 years. The average age of many of our competitors’ fleets is substantially younger than ours. Our older fleet is generally less technologically advanced than many newer fleets, is not capable of serving all markets, may require additional maintenance and capital expenditures to be kept in good operating condition, and as a consequence may be subject to longer or more frequent periods of unavailability. Prolonged periods of unavailability of one or more of our older vessels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we expect that our fleet is less fuel efficient than our competitors’ newer fleets, putting us at a competitive disadvantage because our customers are responsible for the fuel costs they incur. Our ability to continue to upgrade our fleet depends on our ability to commission the construction of new vessels as well as the availability in the market of newer, more technologically advanced vessels with the capabilities to meet our customers’ increasing requirements. If we cannot purchase or construct new vessels (including existing contracts for vessels under construction), then our customers may hire our competitors’ vessels, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to recruit, retain and train crew members may affect our ability to offer services, reduce operational efficiency and increase our labor rates. The delivery of all of our new vessels will require the addition of a significant number of new crew members. Operating these vessels will also require us to increase the level of training for certain crew members. In addition, in each of the markets in which we operate, we are vulnerable to crew member departures. Our inability to retain crew members or recruit and train new crew members in a timely manner may adversely affect our ability to provide certain services, reduce our operational efficiency and increase our crew labor rates. Should we experience a significant number of crew member departures and a resulting increase in our labor rates and interruptions in our operations, our results of operations would be negatively affected. The forecasted demand for subsea services may not materialize. A prolonged, material downturn in oil and natural gas prices could cause a substantial decline in expenditures for exploration, development and production activity, which would likely result in a corresponding decline in the demand for subsea services and thus decrease the utilization and day rates of our vessels. Such a decrease in demand could prevent us from securing long-term contracts for all of the MPSVs we have on order, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, increases in oil and natural gas prices and higher levels of expenditure by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production may not necessarily result in increased demand for our vessels. 9 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to operating hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. Marine support vessels are subject to operating risks such as catastrophic marine disasters, natural disasters (including hurricanes), adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure, crew negligence, collisions, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors. Some of these operating risks may increase as we provide subsea services jointly with our partners in the subsea market, and our vessels serve as platforms for subsea work. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to, or loss of, our vessels and our vessels’ tow or cargo or other property and may result in injury to passengers and personnel, including employees of our partners in the subsea market. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in operating costs or liability to third parties. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of these risks, which our management considers to be customary in the industry. We can make no assurances that we can renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. In addition, concerns about terrorist attacks, as well as other factors, have caused significant increases in the cost of our insurance coverage. The cost and availability of dry-dock services may impede our ability to return vessels to the market in a timely manner. From time to time our vessels undergo routine dry-dock inspection, maintenance and repair as required under U.S. Coast Guard regulations and in order to maintain American Bureau of Shipping, Det Norske Veritas or vessel certifications for our vessels. If the cost to dry-dock, repair, or maintain our vessels should continue to increase, or if the availability of shipyards to perform such services should decline, then our ability to return vessels to work at sustained day rates, or at all, could be materially affected, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Increases in size, quality and quantity of the offshore vessel fleet in areas where we operate could increase competition for charters and lower day rates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Charter rates for marine support vessels in our market areas depend on the supply of and demand for vessels. Excess vessel capacity in the offshore support vessel industry is primarily the result of either construction of new vessels or the mobilization of existing vessels into fully saturated markets. There are a large number of vessels currently under construction and our competitors have recently placed a large number of orders for new vessels to be delivered over the next few years. In recent years, we have been subject to increased competition from both new vessel construction, particularly in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as vessels mobilizing into regions in which we operate. A remobilization to the Gulf of Mexico of U.S.-flagged offshore supply vessels operating in other regions or a repeal or significant modification of the Jones Act or the administrative erosion of its benefits, permitting offshore supply vessels that are either foreign-flagged, foreign-built, foreign-owned, or foreign-operated to engage in the U.S. coastwise trade, would also result in an increase in capacity. Any increase in the supply of offshore supply vessels, whether through new construction, refurbishment or conversion of vessels from other uses, remobilization or changes in the law or its application, could increase competition for charters and lower day rates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Operating internationally subjects us to significant risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets, such as West Africa. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others: • Government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential customers to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; • Potential vessel seizure or confiscation, or the expropriation, nationalization or detention of assets; • Repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements and converting it into dollars or other fungible currency; • Exchange rate fluctuations, which can reduce the purchasing power of local currencies and cause our costs to exceed our budget, reducing our operating margin in the affected country; • Lack of ability to collect amounts owed; • Civil uprisings, riots, and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules, and expose us to losses; 10 Table of Contents • Availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crew members or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; • Decrees, laws, regulations, interpretations and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and • Terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our crew members or onshore personnel. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business plan involves establishing joint ventures with partners in targeted foreign markets. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and a determination that we violated this act, including actions taken by our foreign agents or joint venture partners, may adversely affect our business and operations. In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, such as Nigeria and Mexico, we utilize local agents and seek to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, actions taken by agents and our strategic or local partners, even though our agents and partners are not subject to the FCPA, may subject us to criminal as well as civil liability. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our marine operations are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. As a result, our results of operations will vary throughout the year. In the North Sea, adverse weather conditions during the winter months impact offshore development operations. In the Gulf of Mexico, we historically have enjoyed our highest utilization rates during the second and third quarters, as mild weather provides favorable conditions for offshore exploration, development and construction. Activity in the Gulf of Mexico may also be subject to stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could require us to make substantial expenditures. We must comply with federal, state and local regulations, as well as certain international conventions, the rules and regulations of certain private industry organizations and agencies, and laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which our vessels operate and are registered. These regulations govern, among other things, worker health and safety and the manning, construction, and operation of vessels. These organizations establish safety criteria and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend approved safety standards. If we fail to comply with the requirements of any of these laws or the rules or regulations of these agencies and organizations, we could be subject to substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctive relief. Norwegian authorities have announced they are considering modifying safety regulations applicable to our fleet in the North Sea. If these modifications are implemented, we may incur substantial compliance costs. Our operations also are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment and that otherwise relate to environmental protection. While our insurance policies provide coverage for accidental occurrence of seepage and pollution or clean up and containment of the foregoing, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We may incur substantial costs in complying with such laws and regulations, and noncompliance can subject us to substantial liabilities. The laws and regulations applicable to us and our operations may change. If we violate any such laws or regulations, this could result in significant liability to us. In addition, any amendment to such laws or regulations that mandates more stringent compliance standards would likely cause an increase in our vessel operating expenses. 11 Table of Contents Our U.S. employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Some of our employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws preempt state workers’ compensation laws and permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related incidents in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees or their representatives. The loss of a key customer could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our operations, particularly in the North Sea, West Africa, Mexico, and Brazil, depend on the continuing business of a limited number of key customers. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our key customers in these regions terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew our existing contracts, or refuses to award new contracts to us. The early termination of contracts on our vessels could have an adverse effect on our operations. Some long-term contracts for our vessels contain early termination options in favor of the customer. While some of these contracts have early termination penalties or other provisions designed to discourage the customers from exercising such options, we cannot assure you that our customers would not choose to exercise their termination rights in spite of such penalties. Additionally, customers without contractual termination rights may choose to terminate their contacts despite the threat of litigation from us. Until replacement of such business with other customers, any termination of long-term contracts could temporarily disrupt our business or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We might not be able to replace such business on economically equivalent terms. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers and certain other third parties, and nonpayment by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers and certain other third parties or the failure by the shipyard to build or timely deliver the MPSVs currently on order, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could reduce our ability to pay interest on, or the principal of, our credit facilities. If any of our key customers defaults on its obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Unionization efforts could increase our costs, limit our flexibility or increase the risk of a work stoppage. On December 31, 2007, approximately 43.7% of our employees worldwide were working under collective bargaining agreements, all of whom were working in Norway, the United Kingdom or Brazil. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce, including workers in the Gulf of Mexico. Any such unionization could increase our costs, limit our flexibility or increase the risk of a work stoppage. The removal or reduction of the reimbursement of labor costs by the Norwegian government may adversely affect our costs to operate our vessels in the North Sea. During July 2003, the Norwegian government began partially reimbursing us for labor costs associated with the operation of our vessels. These reimbursements totaled $7.7 million in 2007. If this benefit is reduced or removed entirely, our direct operating costs will increase substantially and negatively impact our profitability. Certain management decisions needed to successfully operate EMSL, our 49% partnership, are subject to the majority owner’s approval. The inability of our management representatives to reach a consensus with the majority owner may negatively affect our results of operations. We hold a 49% equity interest in EMSL and COSL holds the remaining equity interest of 51%. Although our management representatives from time to time may want to explore business opportunities and enter into material 12 Table of Contents agreements which they believe are beneficial for EMSL, all decisions with respect to any material actions on the part of EMSL also require the approval of the representatives of COSL. A failure of COSL and our management representatives to reach a consensus on managing EMSL could materially hinder our ability to successfully operate the partnership. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the level of exploration and production expenditures, in oil and gas prices or industry perceptions about future oil and gas prices could materially decrease our cash flows and reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Our revenues are primarily generated from entities operating in the oil and gas industry in the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa, Mexico, Brazil, and Southeast Asia. Because our revenues are generated primarily from customers having similar economic interests, our operations are susceptible to market volatility resulting from economic or other changes to the oil and gas industry (including the impact of hurricanes). Changes in the level of exploration and production expenditures, in oil and gas prices, or industry perceptions about future oil and gas prices could materially decrease our cash flows and reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Demand for our services depends heavily on activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. The offshore rig count is ultimately the driving force behind the day rates and utilization in any given period. Depending on when we enter into long-term contracts, and their duration, the positive impact on us of an increase in day rates could be mitigated or delayed, and the negative impact on us of a decrease in day rates could be exacerbated or prolonged. This is particularly relevant to the North Sea market, where contracts tend to be longer in duration. A decrease in activity in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which we operate could adversely affect the demand for our marine support services and may reduce our revenues and negatively impact our cash flows. If market conditions were to decline in market areas in which we operate, it could require us to evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets, which may result in write-offs or write-downs on our vessels that may be material individually or in the aggregate. If our competitors are able to supply services to our customers at a lower price, then we may have to reduce our day rates, which would reduce our revenues. Certain of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and more experience operating in international areas than we have. Competition in the marine support services industry primarily involves factors such as: • price, service, safety record and reputation of vessel operators and crews; • fuel efficiency of vessels; and • quality and availability of vessels of the type, capability and size required by the customer. Any reduction in day rates offered by our competitors or growing disparity in fuel efficiency between our fleet and those of our competitors may cause us to reduce our day rates and may negatively impact the utilization of our vessels, which will negatively impact our results of operations. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure Our business is highly cyclical in nature due to our dependency on the levels of offshore oil and gas drilling activity. If we are unable to stabilize our cash flow during depressed markets, we may not be able to meet our obligations under our current or any future debt obligations, and we may not be able to secure financing or have sufficient capital to support our operations, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In depressed markets, our ability to pay debt service and other contractual obligations will depend on improving our future performance and cash flow generation, which in turn will be affected by prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we have difficulty providing for debt service or other contractual obligations in the future, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing costs, selling assets, refinancing or reorganizing our debt or other 13 Table of Contents obligations and seeking additional equity capital, or any combination of the above. We may not be able to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may not be able to repatriate funds from Norway to the U.S., which could negatively impact our operational flexibility. Our Norwegian subsidiaries generated the majority of our profits and our cash flow from operations during 2007 and prior periods, and from time to time we generate substantial liquidity from these subsidiaries. Our ability to repatriate funds depends on a number of factors, including: • the availability of cash at our Norwegian subsidiaries, or availability under our NOK Revolver of NOK 366.0 million ($67.4 million) at December 31, 2007; • our ability to comply with the funded debt to operating income plus depreciation and amortization covenant ratios in our Norwegian subsidiaries’ NOK Revolver following completion of the repatriation; and • our Norwegian subsidiaries having sufficient distributable equity to support the repatriation. If we are not able to repatriate funds from our Norwegian subsidiaries, then our U.S. cash and liquidity position could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards or foreign tax credits may be limited by certain events which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. At December 31, 2007, we had estimated net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of $102.1 million for federal income tax purposes that are set to expire beginning in 2019 through 2025. Any future change in our ownership may limit the ultimate utilization of our NOLs pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). An ownership change may result from, among other things, transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. If we cannot utilize these NOLs, then our liquidity position could be materially and adversely affected. We may face material tax consequences or assessments in countries in which we operate. If we are required to pay material tax assessments, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We conduct business globally and, as a result, one or more of our subsidiaries files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business we are subject to examination by taxing authorities worldwide, including such major jurisdictions as Norway, Mexico, Brazil, Nigeria, Angola, Hong Kong, China, and the United States. During the past three years, our Brazilian subsidiary received non-income related tax assessments from Brazilian state tax authorities totaling approximately 29.9 million Brazilian Reais ($16.8 million at December 31, 2007) in the aggregate and may receive additional assessments in the future. The tax assessments are based on the premise that certain services provided in Brazilian federal waters are considered taxable as transportation services. If the courts in these jurisdictions uphold the assessments, it would have a material adverse effect on our net income, liquidity and operating results. We do not believe any liability in connection with these matters is probable and, accordingly have not accrued for these assessments or any potential interest charges for the potential liabilities. Our business segments have been capitalized and are financed on a stand-alone basis, which may hinder efficient utilization of available financial resources. In general, we operate through three primary operating segments, the North Sea, the U.S., and West Africa. These business segments have been capitalized and are financed on a stand-alone basis. Debt covenants and U.S. and Norwegian tax laws preclude us, to some extent, from effectively transferring the financial resources from one segment for the benefit of the other. Additionally, there are obstacles that we must overcome to achieve a funds transfer from our Norwegian subsidiaries in a tax-efficient manner, and there can be no assurance as to the success of such efforts. 14 Table of Contents Financial statements for periods subsequent to our emergence from bankruptcy will not be comparable to those of prior periods, which will make it difficult for stockholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. The amounts reported in financial statements for periods subsequent to the date we emerged from Chapter 11 have materially changed. These changes are due primarily to: • the reorganization of our assets and liabilities as of March 15, 2005, the effective date of our plan of reorganization; and • the application of the provisions of Statement of Position 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code, which is commonly referred to as “fresh-start” accounting. For example, as part of our fresh-start accounting adjustments, our long-lived assets have been reduced based on the fair market values assigned to our reorganized liabilities and current assets, and based upon a total equity value of $110.0 million as of March 15, 2005. Changes in accounting principles required under generally accepted accounting principles within twelve months of emerging from bankruptcy were required to be adopted as of the date of emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Additionally, we elected to make other changes in accounting practices and policies effective as of March 15, 2005. For all these reasons, our financial statements for periods subsequent to March 15, 2005 are not comparable to those of prior periods which will make it difficult for stockholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the size of our international operations, a significant percentage of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We primarily are exposed to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Norwegian kroner, the British pound, the Brazilian real, and the Nigerian naira. Changes in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could result in translation adjustments reflected as a component of other comprehensive income or losses in shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet. In addition, translation gains and losses could contribute to fluctuations or movements in our income. The terms of our existing registration rights agreement with certain of our common stockholders may restrict the timing of any public offering or other distribution of shares of our common stock and may depress the market price of our stock. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement we executed upon emergence from bankruptcy, certain holders of our common stock have the right to cause us to file a registration statement for the resale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which may be in the form of an underwritten public offering. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market during a short time period, whether in a single transaction or series of transactions, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our outstanding common stock. The Company has agreed that it will not effect any public offering or distribution of its equity securities during the period beginning 10 days prior to and ending 90 days after the date of the prospectus for any such offering (or such shorter period as the underwriters in such transaction may require). As a result, during any such underwritten offering our ability to access the equity capital markets at times when we believe the market is favorable could be limited, and we may have to access other sources of liquidity even if those sources are less attractive to us than selling primary shares of our common stock in the market. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Common Stock Our charter documents include provisions limiting the rights of foreign owners of our capital stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that no shares held by or for the benefit of persons who are non-U.S. citizens that are determined, collectively with all other shares so held, to be in excess of 24.99% of our outstanding capital stock (or any class thereof) are entitled to vote or to receive or accrue rights to any dividends or other distributions of assets paid or payable to the other holders of our capital stock. Those shares determined to be in excess of 24.99% shall be the shares determined by our board of directors to have become so owned most recently. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, at the option of our board, we may redeem such excess shares for cash or for promissory notes of our Company with maturities not to exceed ten years and bearing interest at the then-applicable rate for U.S. treasury instruments of the same tenor. U.S. law currently requires that less than 25% of the capital stock of our Company (or of any other provider of domestic maritime support vessels) may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are non-U.S. citizens. If this charter provision is ineffective, then ownership of 25% or more of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens could result in the loss of our permits to engage in coastwise trade, which would negatively 15 Table of Contents affect our Gulf of Mexico business. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that approximately 21% of our capital stock was held by non-U.S. citizens. Our shareholder rights plan, charter and bylaws may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions dividing our board of directors into classes of directors, granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for nominations for election to our board of directors and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. These provisions also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers and preventing you from getting a premium for your shares that would have otherwise been offered or delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events, or on the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 