Item 1A. Risk Factors. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS There are factors, many beyond the Company’s control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of the Company. Some of these factors are described below in the sections titled “Company Factors” and “Industry Factors,” however, many are described in the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company Factors The Company’s accounting policies and estimates are critical components of the Company’s presentation of its financial statements. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different than amounts previously estimated. Management has identified several accounting policies and estimates as being critical to the presentation of the Company’s financial statements. These policies are described under Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and relate to the following: · Banking segment allowance for loan losses · Mortgage servicing rights · Income tax accounting · Goodwill and other intangible assets · Impairment of investment securities · TRS provision for loan losses · TRS rebate accruals The Company’s lines of business and products not typically associated with Traditional Banking expose the Company’s earnings to additional risks and uncertainties. In addition to Traditional Banking and Mortgage Banking products, the Company provides Refund Anticipation Loans (“RALs”). The following details specific risk factors related to these lines of business: · RALs represent a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the business, it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. Tax Refund Solutions (“TRS”) offers bank products to facilitate the payment of tax refunds for customers that electronically file their tax returns. The Company is one of only a few financial institutions in the U.S. that provides this service to taxpayers. Under this program, the taxpayer may receive a RAL or an Electronic Refund Check or Electronic Refund Deposit (“ERC/ERD”). In return, the Company charges a fee for the service. During the year ended December 31, 2009, net income from the Company’s TRS business operating segment accounted for approximately 47% of the Company’s total net income. Various governmental and consumer groups have, from time to time, questioned the fairness of the RAL program and have accused this industry of charging excessive/usurious rates of interest, via the fee, and engaging in predatory lending practices. On December 31, 2009 the Company announced that it has plans to meet with the FDIC, at the FDIC’s request, in February to discuss the future viability of the RAL business at RB&T. This meeting was originally scheduled to occur by the end of February 2010, however, at the FDIC’s request the meeting date was postponed to March 2010. If the FDIC demands RB&T to exit the RAL business, and RB&T is unable to continue this business line, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income in the future. Consumer groups have also claimed that customers are not adequately advised that a RAL is a loan product and that alternative, less expensive means of obtaining tax refund proceeds may be available. Actions of these groups and others could result in regulatory, governmental or legislative action or material litigation against the Company. Exiting this line of business, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would significantly reduce the Company’s earnings. · The TRS business operating segment represents a significant operational risk, and if the Company were unable to properly service the business, or grow the business, it could materially impact the earnings of the Company. Continued growth in this business operating segment requires continued increases in technology and employees to service the new business. In order to process the new business, the Company must implement and test new systems, as well as train new employees. Significant operational problems could cause the Company to incur higher than normal credit losses. Significant operational problems could also cause a material portion of the Company’s tax- 24 Table of Contents preparer base to switch to a competitor bank to process their bank product transactions, significantly reducing the Company’s projected revenue without a corresponding decrease in expenses. · RALs represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and if the Company fails to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, it could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters relating to the offering of RALs. Failure to comply with disclosure requirements such as Regulation B, Fair Lending and Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, or with laws relating to the permissibility of interest rates and fees charged could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also expose the Company to additional litigation risk and civil monetary penalties. · RALs represent a significant liquidity, or funding, risk. Significantly overestimating or underestimating the Company’s liquidity or funding needs for the upcoming tax season could have a material negative impact on the Company’s overall earnings. Funding for RAL liquidity requirements may also cost more than the Company’s current estimates and/or historical experience. The Company’s liquidity risk increases significantly during the first quarter of each year due to the RAL program. The Company has committed to its electronic filer and tax-preparer base that it will make RALs available to their customers under the terms of its contracts with them. This requires the Company to estimate liquidity, or funding needs for the RAL program, well in advance of the tax season. If management materially overestimates the need for funding during the tax season, a significant expense could be incurred without an offsetting revenue stream. If management materially underestimates its funding needs during the tax season, the Company could experience a significant shortfall of capital needed to fund RALs and could potentially be required to stop or reduce its RAL originations. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company accumulated brokered deposits totaling $921 million with a weighted average rate of 0.51% in preparation for the first quarter 2010 tax season. · RALs represent a significant credit risk, and if the Company is unable to collect a significant portion of its RALs it would materially, negatively impact the earnings of the Company. There is credit risk associated with a RAL because the funds are disbursed to the customer prior to the Company receiving the customer’s refund from the IRS. The Company collects substantially all of its payments related to RALs from the IRS. Losses generally occur on RALs when the Company does not receive payment from the IRS due to a number of reasons, including errors in the tax return, tax return fraud and tax debts not previously disclosed to the Company during its underwriting process. The provision for loan losses is the TRS segment’s most influential component to its overall earnings. Historically at TRS, net credit losses related to RALs within a given calendar year have ranged from a low of 0.04% to a high of 1.17% of total RALs originated (including retained and securitized RALs). During 2009, the Company incurred $18.1 million in net credit losses associated with RALs retained on balance sheet by the Company. Gross losses as a percent of total RALs originated during 2009 were 0.93%. · A significant portion of the Company’s RAL, ERC and ERD volume and revenue is derived from two third party relationships. Losing either of these relationships without replacing their volume or a significant unplanned reduction in demand for their tax services, would materially, negatively impact the Company’s operations. Approximately 23% of the Company’s 2009 TRS revenue is derived from JH with another 5% from Liberty. In December 2009, the Company signed three year agreements with each of these tax service providers. As part of these new agreements, the Company’s percentage of expected future TRS revenue from these two relationships is projected to be significantly higher. Under certain specific circumstances, however, each provider could exit their contract with the Company. In addition, the tax preparation industry is highly competitive and the potential exists that these firms could lose clients to competitors which do not offer TRS products. A loss of business by Republic under either of these circumstances would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings. RB&T is subject to a Cease and Desist Order (the “Order”) from the FDIC. The failure to comply with this Order could result in significant penalties and/or additional sanctions. The FDIC issued an Order dated February 27, 2009 to RB&T, which cites insufficient oversight of RB&T’s consumer compliance programs, most notably in RB&T’s RAL program. The Order requires increased compliance oversight of the RAL program by RB&T’s management and board of directors that is subject to review and approval by the FDIC. Under the Order, RB&T must increase its training and audits of its electronic refund originator (“ERO”) partners, who make RB&T’s tax products available to taxpayers across the nation. In addition, various components of the Order require RB&T to meet certain implementation, completion and reporting timelines, including the establishment of a compliance management system to appropriately assess, measure, monitor and control third party risk and ensure compliance with consumer laws. 25 Table of Contents If the FDIC determines that RB&T is not in compliance with the Order, it has the authority to issue more restrictive enforcement actions. These enforcement actions could include significant penalties and/or requirements regarding the tax business which could significantly, negatively impact this segment’s profitability. See Exhibit 10.62 under Part IV of the Company’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the Order. Further deterioration in the quality of the Company portfolio may result in additional charge-offs which will adversely impact the Company’s operating results. During the last two years, the Company suffered from a deterioration in the quality of its loan portfolio. Traditional banking net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.34% at December 31, 2009 as compared to 0.26% at December 31, 2008 and 0.10% at December 31, 2007. Non-performing loans to total loans outstanding were 1.90% at December 31, 2009 as compared to 0.58% at December 31, 2008 and 0.40% at December 31, 2007. Delinquent loans to total loans outstanding were 1.98% at December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.07% at December 31, 2008 and 0.69% at December 31, 2007. Despite the various measures implemented by Republic to address the current economic situation, there may be further deterioration in the Company’s loan portfolio which will require additional charge-offs. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company owns five investment securities which the Company believes have an elevated level of credit risk and are extremely illiquid. Nationally, residential real estate values have declined significantly since 2007. These declines in value, coupled with the reduced ability of certain homeowners to refinance or repay their residential real estate obligations, have led to elevated delinquencies and losses in residential real estate loans. Many of these loans have previously been securitized and sold to investors as private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage-related securities. The Company owned and continues to own five private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage-related securities with a gross amortized cost of $8.1 million at December 31, 2009. These securities are not guaranteed by government agencies. Approximately $2.2 million of these securities are mostly backed by “Alternative A” first lien mortgage loans. The remaining $5.9 million represents an asset backed security with an insurance “wrap” or guarantee. The average life of these securities is currently estimated to be approximately two years. Due to current market conditions, all of these assets are extremely illiquid, and as such, the Company determined that these securities are Level 3 securities in accordance with FASB ASC topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures.” Based on this determination, the Company utilized an income valuation model (present value model) approach, in determining the fair value of these securities. This approach is beneficial for positions that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, and/or where valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management’s best estimate is used. Management’s best estimate consists of both internal and external support for these investments. During 2009, the Company recorded total non cash other-than-temporary impairment charges of $5.8 million related to its private label mortgage backed securities and other private label mortgage-related securities. In determining these securities were other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company analyzed its ability to collect future principal and interest payments from the security in accordance with its original terms. The Company recorded additional impairment charges, as the Company’s model indicated further credit deterioration of the underlying loans. In other words, the Company modeled future anticipated cash flows, projecting a shortfall, or loss of contractual principal and interest. Further deterioration in economic conditions and/or new or additional downgrades from applicable rating agencies could cause the Company to record additional impairment charges up to $8.1 million in the future. See additional discussion regarding these impairment charges under Footnote 2 “Investment Securities” of Part II Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability. The Company’s primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The Company expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, earnings may be negatively affected. Many factors affect the fluctuation of market interest rates, including, but not limited to the following: · Inflation, · Recession, · A rise in unemployment, · Tightening money supply, · International disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, · FRB rate changes, and · Competition. 26 Table of Contents The Company’s asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Overall, interest rates generally have decreased in fiscal years 2009 and 2008. When interest rates begin to rise again, our interest income could rise at a slower pace than our interest expense and the fair value of our assets could decline at a faster pace than the fluctuation in the fair value of our interest bearing liabilities. These circumstances would cause a decline in the Company’s net interest income and a reduction in the economic value of our shareholders’ equity. Mortgage Banking activities could be adversely impacted by increasing long-term interest rates. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the gain on sale of loans, loan origination fees and loan servicing fees, which account for a significant portion of Mortgage Banking income. A decline in interest rates generally results in higher demand for mortgage products, while an increase in rates generally results in reduced demand. Generally, if demand increases, Mortgage Banking income will be positively impacted by more gains on sale; however, the valuation of existing mortgage servicing rights will decrease and may result in a significant impairment. Moreover, a decline in demand for Mortgage Banking products could also adversely impact other programs/products such as home equity lending, title insurance commissions and service charges on deposit accounts. See additional discussion about this product under Part II Item 8 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Footnote 6 “Mortgage Banking Activities” and Footnote 22 “Segment Information” of Part II Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Company’s stock generally has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a stockholder’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly sell large numbers of shares of Republic’s stock without causing wide price fluctuations. Republic’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, such as actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation, regulatory actions or changes in government regulations, among other factors. A low average daily stock trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. The market price for the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of the Company’s common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · Variations in the Company’s and its competitors’ operating results; · Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of the Company’s future performance and the future performance of our competitors; · Announcements by the Company or its competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships; · Additions or departure of key personnel; · The announced exiting of or significant reductions in material lines of business within the Company; · Changes or proposed changes in banking laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations · Events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to the Company; · Developments relating to regulatory examinations · General conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets; · General conditions in the U.S.; · The presence or absence of short selling of our common stock; and · Future sales of our common stock or debt securities. An investment in the Company’s Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company’s Chairman, President, and Vice Chairman hold substantial amounts of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes. This group generally votes together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. Consequently, other stockholders’ ability to influence Company actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. The Company cannot assure you that the majority stockholders will vote their shares in accordance with minority stockholder interests. 27 Table of Contents The Company may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future for growth, investment or strategic acquisitions. The Company cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, it may not be able to grow or make strategic acquisitions or investments. The Company’s funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support future growth. The Company relies on customer deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the FHLB to fund operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that the Company would be able to replace such funds in the future if the Company’s financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or general market conditions were to change. The Company’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if it is unable to maintain its access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if the Company is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. Although the Company considers such sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Company may seek additional debt in the future to achieve long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to the Company or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to Company operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Company conducts its business activities, including sales practices, practices used in origination and servicing operations, the management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and the Company’s protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team and qualified personnel. The Company is dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of its key management personnel who have substantial experience with Company operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which the Company offers services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of its senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on operations, moreover, the Company depends on its account executives and loan officers to attract bank customers by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial and consumer clients, mortgage companies, real estate agents, brokers and others. The Company believes that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves the Company, other members of the manager’s team may follow. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. The Company’s success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as the Company grows. The Company cannot assure you that it will continue to attract or retain such personnel. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security that could impact the Company’s operational capabilities. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrences of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies heavily on the proper functioning of its technology. The Company relies on its computer systems and outside servicers providing technology for much of its business. If computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable, or suffer a breach of security, the Company’s ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which the Company is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company does not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact profitability. Management diligently reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Industry Factors The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program represents a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the program it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. There can be no assurance that Congress, the Company’s regulators, or others, will not impose additional limitations on this program or prohibit the Company from offering the program. The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program permits eligible customers to overdraft their checking accounts up to a predetermined dollar amount for the Bank’s customary overdraft fee(s). Generally, to be eligible for the Overdraft Honor program, customers must qualify for one of the Company’s traditional checking products when the account is opened and remain in that product for 30 days; have deposits of at least $600; and have had no overdrafts or returned deposited items. Once the eligibility requirements have been met, the client is eligible to participate in the Overdraft Honor program. If an overdraft occurs, the Company may pay the overdraft, at its discretion, up to $600 (an account in good standing after two years is eligible for up to $1,000). Under regulatory guidelines, customers utilizing the Overdraft Honor program may remain in overdraft status for no more than 45 days. Generally, an account that is overdrawn for 60 consecutive days is closed and the balance is charged off. Overdraft balances from deposit accounts, including those overdraft balances resulting from the Company’s Overdraft Honor program, are recorded as a component of loans on the Company’s balance sheet. The Company assesses two types of fees related to overdrawn accounts, a fixed per item fee and a fixed daily charge for being in overdraft status. The per item fee for this service is not considered an extension of credit, but rather is considered a fee for paying checks when sufficient funds are not otherwise available. As such, it is classified on the income statement in “service charges on deposits” as a component of non interest income along with per item fees assessed to customers not in the Overdraft Honor program. A substantial majority of the per item fees in service charges on deposits relates to customers in the Overdraft Honor program. The daily fee assessed to the client for being in overdraft status is considered a loan fee and is thus included in interest income under the line item “loans, including fees.” In November 2009, the FRB announced its amendment of Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (“EFTA”). The EFTA prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer affirmatively consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. The final rules, along with a model opt-in notice, are issued under Regulation E, which implements the EFTA. The final rules require institutions to provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions, and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in. For consumers who do not opt in, the institution would be prohibited from charging overdraft fees for any overdrafts it pays on ATM and one-time debit card transactions. The Company earns a substantial majority of its fee income related to this program from the per item fee it assesses its customers for each insufficient funds check or electronic debit presented for payment. In addition, the Company estimates that it earns more than 60% of its fees on the electronic debits presented for payment. Both the per item fee and the daily fee assessed to the account resulting from its overdraft status, if computed as a percentage of the amount overdrawn, results in a high rate of interest when annualized and are thus considered excessive by some consumer groups. The total net per item fees included in service charges on deposits for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $12.3 million and $13.6 million. The total net daily overdraft charges included in interest income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $2.3 million and $2.6 million. Additional limitations or elimination, or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would significantly reduce Company earnings. 29 Table of Contents The Company is significantly impacted by the regulatory, fiscal and monetary policies of federal and state governments which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity position and earnings. These policies can materially affect the value of the Company’s financial instruments and can also adversely affect the Company’s customers and their ability to repay their outstanding loans. Also, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or adverse examination findings, could result in significant penalties, negatively impact operations, or result in other sanctions against the Company. The Board of Governors of the FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine, in large part, the Company’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return the Company earns on these loans and investments, all of which impact net interest margin. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels and are subject to various routine and non-routine examinations by federal and state regulators. This regulatory oversight is primarily intended to protect depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, not the stockholders of the Company. Changes in policies, regulations and statutes, or the interpretation thereof, could significantly impact the product offerings of Republic causing the Company to terminate or modify its product offerings in a manner that could materially adversely affect the earnings of the Company. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. Various federal and state regulatory agencies possess cease and desist powers, and other authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. The FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These, and other restrictions, can limit in varying degrees, the manner in which Republic conducts its business. Republic is subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if the Company fails to meet these guidelines the Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Republic and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If Republic fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Republic’s financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If Republic’s fails to maintain well-capitalized status under its regulatory framework, or deemed not well-managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if it should experience certain regulatory violations, Republic’s status as a Financial Holding Company and its related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and its ability to offer certain financial products could be compromised. The Company’s financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted to the extent the Company relies on information that is false, misleading or inaccurate. The Company relies on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by vendors, customers and other parties. In deciding whether to extend credit, including RALs, or enter into transactions with other parties, the Company relies on information furnished by, or on behalf of, customers or entities related to those customers or other parties. Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively impact the Company. When borrowers default on obligations of one or more of their loans, it may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses, as a result of the increased allocation of management time and resources to the subsequent collection efforts. In certain situations where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable “work out” arrangements cannot be reached or performed, the Company may have to charge off loans, either in part or in whole. Prepayment of loans may negatively impact Republic’s business. The Company’s customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within the Company’s customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Company is unable to lend those funds to other customers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, Republic’s interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income would have a negative impact on Republic’s results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Difficult national and local market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. Declines in the housing market over the past few years, falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of general business activity. To date, the impact of these adverse conditions has not been as severe in the primary markets the Company serves. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) and its implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On June 17, 2009, President of the U.S. published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the U.S. financial system. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. The reform plan proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on the Company’s operations. However, because the legislation needed to implement the President’s reform plan has not been finalized, and because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, the Company cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums and Assessments Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 and the Company may have to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule in February 2009, which raised regular deposit insurance premiums. In May 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than ten basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, collected by the FDIC on September 30, 2009. The Company paid $1.4 million related to this special assessment. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future quarters at the same or higher levels. In addition, the FDIC recently adopted a rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments collected on December 30, 2009 were $11.5 million, all of which was recorded as a prepaid expense as of December 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2009 and each quarter thereafter, the Company would record an expense for its regular quarterly assessment for the quarter and an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted. These changes may cause the premiums charged by the FDIC to increase and could significantly increase the Company’s non interest expense in 2009 and in future periods. The prepayment of the Company’s FDIC assessments also may temporarily reduce the Company’s liquidity. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 