Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the risks described below occurs, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it deems immaterial, may also impair its business or operations. 15 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S RECENT RESTATEMENTS AND RELATED MATTERS The Company is subject to ongoing informal inquiries by regulatory authorities in the U.S. and Canada and it cannot predict the timing of developments and outcomes in these matters. The Company is the subject of informal inquiries by the SEC and the Ontario Securities Commission (the “OSC”); these inquiries focus on the Company’s accounting policies and related matters. In a letter dated December 13, 2007 the Staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC (the “Staff”) notified the Company that the Staff had completed its review of the Company’s Form 10-K and related filings, and did not, at that time, have any further comments; however, other inquiries remain ongoing. The Company cannot predict when these inquiries will be completed or the further timing of any other developments in connection with the inquiries. The Company also cannot predict the results or outcomes of these inquiries. Expenses incurred in connection with these informal inquiries (which include substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors) continue to adversely affect the Company’s cash position and profitability. The Company may also have potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who could, at a future date, be parties to such inquiries. The informal inquiries may adversely affect the course of the pending litigation against the Company. The Company is currently defending a consolidated class-action lawsuit in the U.S. and a class-action lawsuit in Ontario (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings). Negative developments or outcomes in the informal inquiries could have an adverse effect on the Company’s defense of lawsuits. Finally, the SEC and/or OSC could impose sanctions and/or fines on the Company in connection with the aforementioned inquiries. The indenture dated as at December 4, 2003, and as thereafter amended and supplemented, (the “Indenture”) governing the Company’s 9.625% Senior Notes due 2010 (the “Senior Notes”) contains a covenant requiring the timely filing of its financial statements with regulatory agencies. Additional changes to the Company’s accounting policies and/or additional restatements could result in the failure of the Company to meet these deadlines and cause the holders of its Senior Notes to accelerate payment. In addition, these informal investigations could divert attention of the Company’s management and other personnel for significant periods of time. The Company is subject to lawsuits that could divert its resources and result in the payment of significant damages and other remedies. The Company’s industry is characterized by frequent claims and related litigation regarding breach of contract and related issues. The Company is subject to a number of legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of its business. In addition, the Company is engaged as a defendant in several class action lawsuits filed by certain shareholders of the Company and one action filed by a bondholder of the Company. Since March 2007, this bondholder has repeatedly and unsuccessfully attempted to trigger a default or acceleration under the Indenture and the independent trustee administering the Senior Notes has asked a New York court to declare that the bondholder has no basis for its claims against the Company. The Company cannot assure that it will succeed in defending any claims, that judgments will not be entered against it with respect to any litigation or that reserves the Company may set aside will be adequate to cover any such judgments. If any of these actions or proceedings against the Company is successful, it may be subject to significant damages awards. In addition, the Company is the plaintiff in a number of lawsuits in which it seeks the recovery of substantial payments. The Company is incurring legal fees in prosecuting and defending its lawsuits, and it may not ultimately prevail in such lawsuits or be able to collect on such judgments if it does. Although the Company’s directors and officers liability insurance is deemed to provide coverage for the class-action and bondholder lawsuits the Company is defending (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings), the damages in such lawsuits could be significant. Additionally, the defense of these claims (as with the defense or prosecution of all of the Company’s litigation) could divert the attention of the Company’s management and other personnel for significant periods of time. 16 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION The Company has been the subject of anti-trust complaints and investigations in the past and may be sued or investigated on similar grounds in the future. The Company has identified a number of material weaknesses related to its internal controls over financial reporting. These material weaknesses could continue to impact the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and in a timely manner. The Company has identified a number of material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, management assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2007 and concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective. The following material weaknesses were identified and included in the Company’s assessment: • the Company did not maintain adequate controls, including period-end controls, over the analysis and review of revenue recognition for sales and lease transactions in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”); • the Company did not maintain effective controls, including period-end controls, over accounting for film transactions in accordance with U.S. GAAP; • the Company did not maintain effective controls, including period-end controls, over accounting for inventories in accordance with U.S. GAAP; • the Company did not maintain adequate controls, including period-end controls, over the complete and accurate recording of postretirement benefits other than pensions in accordance with U.S. GAAP; • the Company did not maintain adequate controls, including period-end controls, over the complete and accurate recording of transactions related to real estate lease arrangements for owned and operated theaters and corporate offices in accordance with U.S. GAAP; • the Company did not maintain effective controls, including period-end controls, over the intraperiod allocation of the provision for income taxes in accordance with U.S. GAAP; • the Company did not maintain adequate controls over the lines of communication between operational departments and the Finance department related to revenue recognition for sales and lease transactions; and • the Company did not maintain adequate controls over the timely communication between departments of information relating to developing issues that may impact the Company’s financial reporting. After considering these weaknesses, the Company’s Co-Chief Executive Officers (“Co-CEOs”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) also concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Company submits is recorded, processed, summarized and reported appropriately. The Company has implemented, and continues to implement remedial measures and compensating procedures to address these material weaknesses. These material weaknesses, if left unaddressed, could result in accounting errors such as those underlying its recent restatements, which could adversely impact the accuracy and timing of future reports and filings the Company makes with the SEC and OSC. In addition, while the Company has made significant progress in its remediation efforts it expects that full remediation of its material weaknesses, internal control over financial reporting and its disclosure controls and procedures will take some time. The Company expects that its management will continue to devote significant time to the remedial measures necessary to improve its process and procedures, which could be time consuming and may disrupt the Company’s business. 17 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION Continued negative publicity has affected and may continue to adversely affect the Company’s business and the market price of its publicly traded common shares. The Company has been the subject of continuing negative publicity in part as a result of the ongoing informal SEC and OSC inquiries and its prior delay in filing financial statements and restatements of prior results. Continuing negative publicity could have an adverse effect on the business and the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OR CONDITION The Company is highly leveraged, and this impairs its ability to obtain financing and limits cash flow available for its operations. The Company is highly leveraged. As at December 31, 2007, its total long-term indebtedness was $160.0 million. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s shareholders’ deficit was $85.4 million. The Company’s high leverage has important possible consequences. It may: • make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its financial obligations; • limit its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures (such as joint revenue sharing arrangements), acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require the Company to dedicate all or a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, resulting in less cash available for its operations and other purposes; • impede the Company’s research and development initiatives, including its development of a digitally-based projector; • limit its ability to rapidly adjust to changing market conditions; and • increase its vulnerability to downturns in its business or in general economic conditions. The Company’s ability to satisfy its obligations and to reduce its total debt depends on its future operating performance. The Company’s future operating performance is subject to many factors, including economic, financial and competitive factors, which may be beyond its control. As a result, it may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations or to execute its business strategy successfully. The Company may still be able to incur more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with its existing indebtedness. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing the indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If additional indebtedness is added to its current indebtedness levels, the related risks that the Company faces would be magnified. The Company may not generate cash flow sufficient to service all of its obligations. The Company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to fund its operations, working capital and capital expenditures, depends on its ability to generate cash in the future. The Company’s cash flow is subject to general economic, industry, financial, competitive, technological, operating, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company’s business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable it to repay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. 18 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION The agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness contain significant restrictions that limit its operating and financial flexibility. The agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness including the agreement governing its credit facility and the Indenture governing the Senior Notes, contain covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions; • repurchase stock; • make certain investments; • transfer or sell assets; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell stock of subsidiaries; • create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; and • merge, consolidate, amalgamate or sell all or substantially all of its assets to another person. In addition, the Company’s agreement governing its credit facility contains a covenant requiring the Company to maintain a certain level of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and other defined adjustments (“EBITDA”) over the prior twelve months for two consecutive quarters and a minimum Cash and Excess Availability balance. Pursuant to an amendment in December 2007, the EBITDA maintenance covenant was reduced to $12.5 million for the four quarters ending each of December 31, 2007, March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008. Such covenants and restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy. Moreover, if operating results fall below historical levels, the Company may be unable to comply with these covenants. If that occurs, availability under the Company’s credit facility could be limited or restricted and the credit facility lender could demand re-payment of any outstanding indebtedness. In addition, under the terms of the credit facility, the Company has to comply with several reporting requirements including the delivery of audited consolidated financial statements within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year. The Company’s agreements governing its senior note indebtedness contain a covenant requiring the timely filing of its quarterly and annual results with regulatory agencies. Failure to meet these deadlines could result in holders of the Senior Notes demanding payment. The filing delay of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in the Company being in default of a financial reporting covenant under the Indenture governing the Company’s Senior Notes due 2010. Certain bankruptcy and insolvency laws may impair a creditor’s ability to enforce remedies in an insolvency. The Company is incorporated under the laws of Canada, and substantially all of its assets are located in Canada. Under bankruptcy laws in the United States, courts typically have jurisdiction over a debtor’s property, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that courts outside the United States would recognize the U.S. bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, difficulties may arise in administering a U.S. bankruptcy case involving a Canadian company like the Company with property located outside the United States, and any orders or judgments of a bankruptcy court in the United States may not be enforceable in Canada against the Company. The rights of a creditor to enforce remedies may be significantly impaired by the restructuring provisions of applicable Canadian federal bankruptcy, insolvency and other restructuring legislation if the benefit of such legislation is sought with respect to the Company. For example, both the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act (Canada) 19 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION and the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (Canada) contain provisions enabling an “insolvent person” to obtain a stay of proceeding against its creditors and others and to prepare and file a proposal for consideration by all or some of its creditors to be voted on by the various classes of its creditors. Moreover, this legislation permits, in certain circumstances, an insolvent debtor to retain possession and administration of its property, even though it may be in default under the applicable debt instrument. The Company’s stock price has historically been volatile and further declines in market price may negatively impact its ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business and retain employees. The stock markets have experienced price fluctuations that have affected the market price and trading volumes of many companies, with potential consequential negative effects on the trading of securities of those companies. A major decline in the capital markets generally, or an adjustment in the market price or trading volumes of the Company’s publicly traded securities, may negatively impact its ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business or retain employees. These factors, as well as general economic and geopolitical conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities. The Company’s theater system revenue can vary significantly from its cash flows under theater system sales or lease agreements. The Company’s theater systems revenue can vary significantly from the associated cash flows. The Company generally provides financing to customers for theater systems on a long-term basis through long-term leases or notes receivables. The terms of leases or notes receivable are typically 10 to 20 years. The Company’s agreements typically provide for three major sources of cash flow related to theater systems: • initial fees, which are paid in installments generally commencing upon the signing of the agreement until installation of the theater systems; • ongoing fees, which are paid monthly after all theater systems have been installed and are generally equal to the greater of a fixed minimum amount per annum and a percentage of box-office receipts; and • ongoing annual maintenance and extended warranty fees, which are generally payable commencing in the second year of theater operations. Initial fees generally make up a majority of cash received for a theater arrangement. For sales and sales-type leases, the revenue recorded is generally equal to the sum of initial fees and the present value of minimum ongoing fees due under the agreement. Cash received from initial fees in advance of meeting the revenue recognition criteria for the theater systems is recorded as deferred revenue. Contingent fees are recognized as they are reported by the theaters after annual minimum fixed fees are exceeded. Leases that do not transfer substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership to the customer are classified as operating leases. For these leases, initial fees and minimum fixed ongoing fees are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent fees are recognized as they are reported by the theaters after annual minimum fixed fees are exceeded. Under joint revenue sharing arrangements, revenue is recognized when reported by the theater operator, provided that collection is reasonably assured. There is collection risk associated with sale or lease arrangement payments to be received over the terms of the Company’s theater system agreements. The Company is dependent in part on the viability of its customers for collections under long-term lease or sales financing arrangements. The Company cannot assure that exhibitors or other operators will not experience financial difficulties in the future. The Company may not collect all of its contracted future payments under either lease or sales financing arrangements. The Company’s revenue can vary significantly from its cash flows under 20 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION theater systems sale or lease agreements, and there is collection risk associated with future payments to be received over the terms of its arrangements. The Company may not convert all of its backlog into revenue and cash flows. The Company lists signed contracts for theater systems sales or sales-type leases for which revenue has not been recognized as sales backlog prior to the time of revenue recognition. Sales backlog represents the total value of all signed theater system sale or lease agreements that are expected to be recognized as revenue in the future (other than those under joint revenue sharing arrangements) and includes initial fees along with the present value of fixed minimum ongoing fees due over the term, but excludes contingent fees in excess of fixed minimum ongoing fees that might be received in the future and maintenance and extended warranty fees. Notwithstanding the legal obligation to do so, all of the Company’s customers with which it has signed contracts may not accept delivery of theater systems that are included in the Company’s backlog. This could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and cash flows. In addition, customers with theater system obligations in backlog sometimes request that the Company agree to modify or reduce such obligations. The Company has in the past, under certain circumstances, restructured backlog obligations of certain customers. The Company depends on commercial movie exhibitors to purchase or lease its IMAX theater systems and to provide additional revenues and venues in which to exhibit its IMAX DMR films. The Company’s primary customers are commercial multiplex exhibitors. The Company is unable to predict if or when they or other exhibitors will purchase or lease or continue to purchase or lease IMAX theater systems from the Company. If exhibitors choose to reduce their levels of expansion or decide not to purchase or lease IMAX theater systems for their existing or new theaters, the Company’s revenues would not increase at an anticipated rate and motion picture studios may be less willing to reformat Hollywood 35mm films into the Company’s film format for exhibition in commercial IMAX theaters. As a result, the Company’s future revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company’s operating results and cash flow can vary substantially from quarter to quarter and could increase the volatility of its share price. The Company’s operating results and cash flow can fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. In particular, fluctuations in theater system installations can materially affect operating results. Factors that have affected the Company’s operating results and cash flow in the past, and are likely to affect its operating results and cash flow in the future include, among other things: • the timing of signing and installation of new theater systems; • demand for, and acceptance of, its products and services; • revenue recognition of sales and sales-type leases; • classification of leases as sales-type versus operating leases; • volume of orders received and that can be fulfilled in the quarter; • the level of its sales backlog; • the timing and commercial success of films produced and distributed by the Company and others; • the signing of film distribution agreements; • the financial performance of IMAX theaters operated by the Company’s customers and by the Company; • the financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, faced by customers, particularly customers in the commercial exhibition industry; • the magnitude and timing of spending in relation to the Company’s research and development efforts; and 21 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION • the number and timing of joint revenue sharing arrangement installations, related capital expenditures and timing of related cash receipts. Most of the Company’s operating expenses are fixed in the short term. The Company may be unable to rapidly adjust its spending to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall, which would harm quarterly operating results. The results of any quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of its results for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year. The Company may not be able to generate profits in the future. The Company had significant losses in each of 2007 and 2006. The Company may not be able to generate profits in any future period. If the Company does not generate profits in future periods, it may be unable to finance the operations of its business or meet its debt obligations. The success of the IMAX theater network is directly related to the availability and success of IMAX DMR films. An important factor affecting the growth and success of the IMAX theater network is the availability of films for IMAX theaters. The Company produces only a small number of such films and, as a result, the Company relies principally on such films produced by third party filmmakers and studios, particularly Hollywood features converted from 35mm format using the Company’s IMAX DMR technology. There are no guarantees that these filmmakers and studios will continue to release IMAX films, or that the films they produce will be commercially successful. This facility becomes more critical as the number of joint revenue sharing arrangements included in the network grows. The Company’s revenues from joint revenue sharing arrangements are driven by the exhibitor’s box-office, which is wholly dependent on commercial acceptance of the films. The Company’s revenues from existing customers are derived in part from financial reporting provided by its customers, which may be inaccurate or incomplete, resulting in lost or delayed revenues. A portion of the Company’s payments under lease or sales arrangements and its film license fees are based upon financial reporting provided by its customers. If such reporting is inaccurate, incomplete or withheld, the Company’s ability to invoice and receive the proper amount from its customers in a timely fashion will be impaired. The Company’s contractual audits of IMAX theaters may not rectify payments lost or delayed as a result of customers not fulfilling their contractual requirements with respect to financial reporting. The Company conducts business internationally which exposes it to uncertainties and risks that could negatively affect its operations and sales. A significant portion of the Company’s sales are made to customers located outside the United States and Canada. Approximately 35%, 36% and 42% of its revenues were derived outside of the United States and Canada in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company expects its international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of its revenues in the future and plans to expand into new markets in the future. The Company does not have significant experience in operating in certain foreign countries and is subject to the risks associated with operating in those countries. The Company currently has theater systems arrangements projected in countries where economies have been unstable in recent years. The economies of other foreign countries important to the Company’s operations could also suffer slower economic growth or instability in the future. The following are among the risks that could negatively affect the Company’s operations and sales in foreign markets: • new restrictions on access to markets, both for theater systems and films; • unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and potential currency devaluations; 22 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION • new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and other trade barriers; • imposition of foreign exchange controls in such foreign jurisdictions; • dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • adverse changes in monetary and/or tax policies; • poor recognition of intellectual property rights; • inflation; • requirements to provide performance bonds and letters of credit to international customers to secure system component deliveries; and • political, economic and social instability in foreign countries. The Company faces risks in connection with the continued expansion of its business in China and other parts of Asia. The first IMAX theater system in a theater in China was installed in December 2001 and 25 additional IMAX theater systems are scheduled to be installed in China by 2012. China is now the Company’s second largest market. However, the geopolitical instability of the region comprising China, Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea could result in economic embargoes, disruptions in shipping or even military hostilities, which could interfere with both the fulfillment of the Company’s existing contracts and its pursuit of additional contracts in China. The introduction of new products and technologies and changes in the way the Company’s competitors operate could harm the Company’s business. The out-of-home entertainment industry is very competitive, and the Company faces a number of challenges. The Company competes with other large-format film projector manufacturers as well as, less directly, conventional motion picture exhibitors. In addition to existing competitors, the Company may also face competition in the future from companies in the entertainment industry with new technologies and/or substantially greater capital resources. The Company also faces competition from a number of alternative motion picture distribution channels such as home video, pay-per-view, video-on-demand, DVD, internet and syndicated and broadcast television. The Company also competes for the public’s leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including sporting events, concerts, live theater and restaurants. Furthermore, the out-of-home entertainment industry in general is undergoing significant changes. Primarily due to technological developments and changing consumer tastes, numerous companies are developing, and are expected to continue to develop, new entertainment products for the out-of-home entertainment industry, which may compete directly with the Company’s products. Competitors may design products which are more attractive to the consumer and/or more cost effective than the Company’s and may make its products less competitive. The products that the Company is currently developing may never be attractive to consumers or be competitive. As a result of this competition, the Company could lose market share if demand for its products declines, which could seriously harm its business and operating results. The motion picture exhibition industry is in the early stages of conversion from film-based media to electronic-based media. The Company is similarly developing a proprietary digital projector that can be utilized in IMAX theaters, and is expected to be available for production and sale by mid 2008. There are no guarantees this product will be successful. 23 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION There is a technology risk associated with the Company’s development of a digitally-based projector. The Company is in the process of developing a proprietary digital projector that will ultimately supplant and replace its film-based projector for a large portion of its commercial theater customer base. As of March 10, 2008, the Company has signed contracts for the installation of 155 digital projectors in future periods. There are numerous risks associated with this transition. The Company may fail to develop a production-ready digital projector that meets its high standards for image quality, resulting in the need for additional research and development to develop a production-ready projector that does. The digital projector developed by the Company may have technical flaws or bugs that require repair or modification. Competitors may design digitally-based projectors which are more attractive to the consumer, available earlier than the Company’s and/or more cost effective than the Company’s, and may make the Company’s film and/or digital projectors less competitive. As a result of this competition, the Company could lose market share if demand for its products declines, which could seriously harm its business and operating results. In addition, the need for additional research and development and/or for capital to finance replacement of certain theater systems and associated conversion costs could require the Company to raise additional capital, which capital may not be available to the Company on attractive terms, or at all. In addition, as the roll-out of the Company’s digital projectors approaches, prospective customers may delay their purchase or lease of film-based projectors, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Finally, a number of the Company’s theater system arrangements include provisions allowing for customers to upgrade from film-based systems to digital systems, when available. The accounting impact of such provisions may include the deferral of some or all of the revenue (though not the cash) associated with the arrangement beyond the point of the full installation and customer acceptance of the film-based system. Such deferral could result in a significant increase in the Company’s deferred revenue accounts and a significant decrease in the Company’s reported profits prior to the delivery of the digital upgrade. The Company currently expects that its digital projectors will become available by mid 2008. On December 7, 2007 the Company and AMC, announced a joint revenue sharing arrangement to install 100 IMAX digital projection systems at AMC locations in 33 major U.S. markets, the largest theater deal in the Company’s history. The obligation of AMC to take delivery of its second 50 digital systems is subject to certain performance thresholds. Although the Company believes these thresholds will be exceeded, there is no guarantee that it will. In 2007, the Company signed agreements for an additional 20 IMAX digital theater systems, including four under joint revenue sharing arrangements with other exhibitors. In addition, on March 10, 2008, the Company announced an agreement for 35 digital theater systems (under its traditional sales/sales-type-lease structure) with RACIMEC to be installed in Central and South America and the Caribbean. This is the second largest theater deal in the Company’s history, following on the heels of AMC’s 100 theater North American deal. These agreements are dependent on the successful development and launch of the Company’s digital projection system. An economic downturn could materially affect the Company’s business by reducing demand for IMAX theater systems and revenue generated from box-office sales. The Company depends on the sale and lease of IMAX theater systems to commercial movie exhibitors to generate a significant portion of its revenues. Most of the Company’s agreements provide for additional revenues based on a percentage of theater box-office receipts when attendance at an IMAX theater exceeds a minimum threshold. The Company’s joint revenue sharing arrangements provide it with a portion of the box-office from the customer’s IMAX theaters. Commercial movie exhibitors generate revenues from consumer attendance at their theaters, which are subject to general political, social and economic conditions, the willingness of consumers to spend discretionary money at movie theaters and the popularity of the films released to the IMAX theaters. If there is a prolonged economic downturn, commercial movie exhibitors could be less willing to invest capital in new theaters resulting in a decline in demand for new IMAX theater systems. In addition, any decline in attendance at commercial IMAX theaters will reduce the additional revenues the Company generates from a percentage of theater box-office receipts or under its joint revenue sharing arrangements. Institutional exhibitors may also experience a decline in attendance given general political, social and economic conditions, which may result in reduced revenues generated from receipts attributed to IMAX theaters at such institutions and reduced film license fees. 24 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION The Company may experience adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of its expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars. The Company also generates revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen. The Company may enter into forward contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. However, the Company’s strategy may not be successful in reducing its exposure to these fluctuations. Any material increase in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar as compared to historic levels could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company is subject to impairment losses on its film assets. The Company amortizes its film assets, including IMAX DMR costs capitalized, using the individual film forecast method, whereby the costs of film assets are amortized and participation costs are accrued for each film in the ratio of revenues earned in the current period to management’s estimate of total revenues ultimately expected to be received for that title. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its estimates of ultimate revenues on a title-by-title basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization of the film assets and write-downs or impairments of film assets. Results of operations in future years depend upon the amortization of the Company’s film assets and may be significantly affected by periodic adjustments in amortization rates. The Company is subject to impairment losses on its inventories. The Company records provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based upon current estimates of future events and conditions, including the anticipated installation dates for the current backlog of theater system contracts, technological developments, signings in negotiation and anticipated market acceptance of the Company’s current and pending theater systems. The Company is in the process of developing a proprietary digitally-based IMAX projection system that will ultimately supplant and replace its film-based projectors for a large portion of its commercial theater customer base. Increased customer acceptance and preference for the Company’s digital projection system may subject existing film-based inventories to write-downs (resulting in lower margins) as these theater systems become less desirable in the future. If the Company’s goodwill or long lived assets become impaired the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under U.S. GAAP, the Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment test is required. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances include (but are not limited to) a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in the Company’s industry. The Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or long lived assets is determined. Changes in accounting and changes in management’s estimates may affect the Company’s reported earnings and operating income. U.S. GAAP and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of the Company’s business, such as revenue recognition, film accounting, accounting for pensions, accounting for income taxes, and treatment of goodwill or long lived assets, are highly complex and involve many subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, management’s estimates, or changes in the Company’s products or business could significantly change its reported future earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. 25 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION The Company relies on its key personnel, and the loss of one or more of those personnel could harm its ability to carry out its business strategy. The Company’s operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance and continued service of its senior management team. The Company may not find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services are no longer available. The loss of the services of one or more members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect its ability to effectively pursue its business strategy. The Company’s ability to adequately protect its intellectual property is limited, and competitors may misappropriate its technology, which could weaken its competitive position. The Company depends on its proprietary knowledge regarding IMAX theater systems and film and digital technology. The Company relies principally upon a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, restrictions on disclosures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary and intellectual property rights. These laws and procedures may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtain the Company’s processes and technology or deter others from developing similar processes or technology, which could weaken the Company’s competitive position. The protection provided to the Company’s proprietary technology by the laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect it as fully as the laws of Canada or the United States. Some of the underlying technologies of the Company’s products and system components are not covered by patents or patent applications. The Company has patents issued and patent applications pending, including those covering its digital projector and digital conversion technology. The Company’s patents are filed in the United States often with corresponding patents or filed applications in other jurisdictions, such as Canada, Belgium, Japan, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The patents may not be issued or provide the Company with any competitive advantages. The patent applications may also be challenged by third parties. Several of the Company’s issued patents in the United States, Canada and Japan for improvements to IMAX projectors, IMAX 3D Dome and sound system components expire between 2009 and 2024. Any claims or litigation initiated by the Company to protect its proprietary technology could be time consuming, costly and divert the attention of its technical and management resources. Because the Company is incorporated in Canada, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to enforce against the Company liabilities based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. The Company is incorporated under the federal laws of Canada, some of its directors and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of its assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for United States’ plaintiffs to effect service within the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize against them or the Company in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability under the United States federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to bring an original action outside of the United States against the Company to enforce liabilities based solely on U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. In a letter dated December 13, 2007 the Staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC (the “Staff”) notified the Company that the Staff had completed its review of the Company’s Form 10-K and related filings, and did not, at that time, have any further comments. The Company had received comments from the Staff in a letter dated September 20, 2006 with respect to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The Company responded to these comments in December 2006. In a letter dated February 12, 2007, the Staff sent the Company additional comments, particularly in the area of its revenue recognition policies and disclosures. The Company responded to the majority of these comments in letters dated June 20, 2007 and July 2, 2007. The Company received additional comments from the Staff in a letter dated August 17, 2007 with respect to the Company’s Annual Report 26 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007. The Company responded to these comments in September 2007. The Company has also received comments from the OSC dated November 20, 2006, to which the Company responded on January 19, 2007. The Company has received further comments from the OSC relating to the Company’s revenue recognition policies and disclosures in letters dated February 27, 2007, April 9, 2007 and June 27, 2007. The Company responded to these comments on September 28, 2007. The Company considered the SEC and OSC comments in the preparation of its Form 10-K/A filed on November 6, 2007. 