risk factors and cautionary statements described in the other documents the Company files or furnishes from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Should one or more of the foregoing risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the Company’s underlying assumptions prove incorrect, the Company’s actual results may vary materially from those anticipated in its forward-looking statements, and its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. PART I Item 1. Business In this annual report, the words “Consolidated Graphics,” “CGX,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Consolidated Graphics, Inc, including our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Our fiscal year ends on March 31st. Company Overview Consolidated Graphics, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading U.S. and Canadian general commercial printing company, with 70 printing businesses strategically located across 27 states plus one Canadian province. Each of our printing businesses has a well-established operating history, more than 25 years in most cases. Complementing the printing services we provide, we also offer (i) state-of-the-art fulfillment services from 13 fulfillment centers located at or near one of our printing businesses and (ii) proprietary digital technology solutions and e-commerce capabilities from two technology hubs located at our corporate headquarters and at one of our printing businesses in the Baltimore/Washington D.C. area. Our sales are derived from providing commercial printing and print-related services. These services consist of (i) traditional print services, including electronic prepress, digital and offset printing, finishing, storage and delivery of high-quality printed documents which are custom manufactured to our customers’ design specifications; (ii) fulfillment and mailing services for such printed materials; and (iii) digital technology solutions and e-commerce capabilities that enable our customers to more efficiently procure and manage printed materials and/or design, procure, distribute, track and analyze results of printing-based marketing programs and activities. Examples of the types of documents we print for our customers include high-quality, multi-color marketing materials, product and capability brochures, point-of-purchase displays, direct mail pieces, shareholder communications, trading cards, catalogs and training manuals. The scope and extent of services provided to our customers typically varies for each individual order we receive, depending on customer-specific factors, including the intended uses for the printed materials. Furthermore, each of our printing businesses generally is capable of providing the complete range of our services to its customers. Accordingly, we do not operate our business in a manner that differentiates among our respective capabilities and services for financial or management reporting purposes, rather each of our printing businesses define a distinct reporting unit. 3 Table of Contents The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1985. Our website address is www.cgx.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) and other filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish such reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the current forms of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, and the charters of the respective committees of our Board of Directors, and contact information for our Presiding Director for purposes of shareholder communications, are all available on our website. We will also provide printed copies of these materials to any shareholder upon request directed to Consolidated Graphics, Inc., Attn: Secretary, 5858 Westheimer, Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77057. We intend to disclose on our website any changes to or waivers from the Code of Ethics that are also required under SEC rules and regulations to be disclosed under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Industry Background The printing industry is one of the largest industries in the U.S. and is comprised of many segments, including general commercial printing, newspapers, directories, book and magazine publishing, financial printing, business forms, greeting cards and stationery-type products. We operate in the general commercial printing segment of the industry which generates in the U.S. over $50 billion in annual sales based on available industry data. Most of the general commercial printing businesses operating in the U.S. today are privately-owned and individually generate less than $35 million in annual sales. A consolidation trend in the general commercial printing industry emerged in the 1990’s as owners of medium-sized printing businesses (those with annual sales of $2 million to $35 million) sought to evaluate exit strategies and address new industry challenges, a trend that has continued to date. In order to limit personal financial risk, increase personal financial liquidity, facilitate retirement goals or obtain access to additional resources that would support the continued growth of their businesses, owners of these printing businesses became more willing to sell their companies to larger, better-capitalized companies. We have been an industry-leader in the consolidation trend since our initial public offering in 1994. We believe that there are very few companies that currently possess the comparable objectives, financial strength and management expertise necessary to acquire such printing businesses. Primary industry challenges faced by printing business owners include the need to make on-going investments in new technology and equipment and downturns in the economy. For example, most printing design and prepress activities are now accomplished in a digital environment. Prepress computer equipment based on a complete digital workflow, along with more sophisticated printing presses and finishing equipment, are more efficient, operate faster and require less labor than the equipment they typically replace. General commercial printing businesses must make substantial capital investments over time in new equipment and technology in order to remain competitive in the industry, but they may not have the financial resources to do so. Because of the development and on-going advancement in digital technology, print buyers have increasingly sought shorter print runs, the ability to personalize more sophisticated marketing materials to strategically target certain markets or demographics, and e-commerce solutions for executing and controlling the print procurement and printed materials management processes. This factor has also contributed substantially to the burden on companies in our industry to invest in new technology and equipment to remain competitive. Additionally, large corporations have increasingly sought to achieve a reduction in operating costs by streamlining their print-related processes and limiting their number of suppliers. To accomplish these objectives, these large customers frequently seek to align themselves with printing companies that have a significant national presence and offer a wide range of commercial print capabilities and services, putting additional pressure on single-location, privately-held printing companies. In general, changes in prevailing U.S. economic conditions significantly impact the general commercial printing industry (approximately 96% of our fiscal 2008 revenues were U.S.-based). To the extent weakness in the U.S. economy causes local and national corporations to reduce their spending on advertising and marketing materials, the demand for commercial printing services may be adversely affected. Further compounding a potential decline in demand, competitive pricing pressures may occur and negatively impact the level of sales and profit margins throughout the industry. Beginning in 2000, industry conditions experienced a significant downturn due in part to overcapacity caused by a high rate of investment by the overall industry in new technology and equipment, which was subsequently followed by a broad deterioration in the U.S. economy. This downturn continued through 2003 and many printing businesses failed. The combination of these failures, and a subsequent strengthening in the U.S. economy, have resulted in generally stable industry conditions in recent years. 4 Table of Contents Competition The general commercial printing industry in the U.S. is highly fragmented and most customers procure print services from local sources. Therefore, we compete primarily with locally-based printing companies for most print projects. Most of our competitors are privately-held, single location operations; however, some competitors are large corporations, both publicly and privately owned. The major competitive factors in our business are: • Extent and quality of customer service, including ability to meet customer deadlines • Quality of finished materials • Cost structure and sales pricing strategy • Financial strength The ability to provide high-quality customer service is often dependent on production and distribution capabilities, along with the availability of equipment that is appropriate in size and function for a given project. We believe that our broad range of printing capabilities and services, along with our ability to use our leading geographic footprint to serve customers on local, regional and national levels, gives us a competitive advantage over smaller, local printing companies. Furthermore, the economic advantages created by our purchasing power, advanced technological capabilities and ability to utilize available production capacity throughout our organization, enable our printing businesses to compete more effectively and provide faster turnaround times than many of our competitors. Our strong financial position enables us to invest in newer, more efficient technology and equipment and to make strategic acquisitions, which expands our industry-leading position in terms of locations, capabilities, and services. Business Strategy Our overall business strategy is to be the market leader in the commercial printing industry by combining the customer service and responsiveness of well-managed, local printing businesses with the competitive advantages provided by a large national organization. Management at each of our printing businesses maintains responsibility for the day-to-day operations and profitability of their business, while continuing to strengthen and build new customer relationships in their respective markets. At the same time, our printing businesses are supported by the management expertise, purchasing power, technology investments, including infrastructure and support, national sales and marketing and other operating advantages that exist because they are part of a large national organization. Internal Sales Growth—Our printing businesses have numerous opportunities, individually and collectively, to achieve consistent, long-term sales growth at a rate that exceeds industry averages. Our current initiatives to drive internal sales growth include: • Aggressively pursuing new business opportunities and experienced sales professionals to gain market share and strengthen our competitive position going forward. • Continuing to invest in new equipment and technology that enables us to provide increasingly higher levels of service and a broader range of capabilities. • Capitalizing on our national presence and wide range of capabilities, including our technology related offerings (see “Printing Operations—Print-Related Services” below) to pursue sole or preferred-source opportunities with national accounts. • Providing information and training to our sales professionals (688 currently) to ensure they are knowledgeable about the complete range of services and capabilities we offer. Disciplined Acquisition Program—We are actively seeking to grow a leading U.S. and Canadian geographic footprint through additional acquisitions of medium and large-sized general commercial printing businesses, typically ones that are well-managed, profitable and that generally have an excellent reputation and quality customer base. We may also acquire smaller and/or distressed printing businesses whose operations can be merged into one of our existing locations. This type of transaction is commonly referred to as a “tuck-in” acquisition. Cost Savings—Because of our size and national presence, we leverage our economies of scale to obtain preferential pricing for paper and supplies used in the printing process and for newer, more efficient equipment. We have various national purchasing contracts in place with major suppliers and manufacturers. Our purchasing support staff continually monitor market conditions and negotiate pricing and other contractual terms with these vendors to maximize the cost savings we achieve under these agreements. In addition, we have centralized certain administrative services, such as human resources, treasury, tax and risk management, to generate cost savings. 5 Table of Contents Best Practices/Benchmarking—Management teams at our printing businesses have access to strategic counsel and professional management techniques in such areas as planning, organization, and controls. We provide a forum for them to share their knowledge of technical processes and their best practices with one another through periodic group meetings attended by top management and other key personnel. We utilize our wide-area network and management information systems to benchmark financial and operational data, and share such information across our printing businesses to help their management teams identify and respond to changes in operating trends. Leadership Development—Our program to recruit, train and develop recent college graduates as printing sales and management professionals is an integral component of our growth strategy. Participants in our Leadership Development Program follow a curriculum that provides them with technical industry knowledge, coupled with general business, managerial, sales and best practices training. Our Leadership Development Program is unique to the industry, and we believe it is a key factor in our ability to provide a high degree of quality customer service, as well as provide a pool of talent for future management positions at our printing businesses. As of April 30, 2008 we had 305 employees who were current participants in or graduates of this program, 21 of whom serve as the president of the printing business at which they are employed, representing 30% of our printing company presidents. Printing Operations We currently operate 70 printing businesses in 27 states and one Canadian province, plus 13 fulfillment centers and two technology hubs. Each printing business is operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of our Company. We produce high-quality, custom-designed printed materials for a large base of customers in a broad cross-section of industries, the majority of which are located in the markets where our printing businesses are based. In addition to providing a full range of prepress, digital and offset printing and finishing services, our printing businesses offer fulfillment and mailing services, as well as e-commerce software solutions and other print-related, value-added services. Commercial Printing Services In general, commercial printing includes developing printable content through electronic prepress services, reproducing images on paper using printing presses and providing comprehensive finishing and delivery services. We maintain flexible production schedules in order to react swiftly to our customers’ requirements. Many printing projects require fast turnaround times, from conception through delivery, and our printing businesses must be able to absorb unexpected or short-notice demands for our services when called upon to do so. Consequently, our printing businesses do not generally operate at full capacity. Our electronic prepress services include all of the steps necessary to prepare media (photographs, artwork, and typed copy) for printing. This process involves converting the media into digital images, separating digital color images into process colors, and in some cases preparing a proof for customer approval. Most of our printing businesses produce printing plates using “computer-to-plate” technology, whereby digitized text, graphic images and line art are transferred directly from digital files onto printing plates. In addition, our printing businesses have adopted recent advances in technology that enable delivery of a high-quality proof for customer approval electronically via the Internet, eliminating the cost of producing and delivering a proof, or multiple rounds of proofs, in hard copy format. Computer-to-plate and remote proofing technology reduces costs, shortens turnaround times and improves product quality. We continually evaluate our existing electronic prepress capabilities and closely monitor the development of newer technology that may be used to increase productivity and improve quality to better serve our customers. We primarily use offset lithography to reproduce images on paper, which is the process that generally provides the highest quality, lowest cost printed materials for most commercial printing projects. Short and medium-run projects are generally printed on sheetfed presses, while longer-run projects are typically printed on web presses. Our printing businesses primarily use sheetfed printing presses, which are generally capable of printing up to 16 pages of letter-sized finished product on a 28 by 40 inch sheet of paper with eight pages on each side (known as a 16-page “signature”). Currently our printing businesses operate a total of 289 sheetfed presses capable of simultaneously printing from one to 12 colors and are capable of running at speeds of up to 15,000 impressions an hour. We operate 63 half and full-size web printing presses which print up to eight colors on a continuous roll of paper, print up to 32-page signatures on both sides of the paper at speeds of up to 50,000 impressions an hour and are also capable of folding, gluing and/or perforating the printed material in a single pass. Digital printing is a smaller but rapidly-growing component of the general commercial printing industry that enables high quality, variable data customization (such as personalization by name, relationship or interests) on very short to medium-run projects. We operate a total of 164 digital presses, including 64 high capacity, ultra high quality presses such as Kodak Nexpress, Xerox iGen3 and HP Indigo. Digital presses enable variable information printing and automatic personalization of printed materials. 6 Table of Contents Our finishing services include cutting, folding, binding and other operations necessary to finish printed materials according to customer specifications. Many of our printing businesses also offer specialty finishing capabilities, such as die-cutting, embossing, uv coating, and foil stamping. Print-related Services By offering innovative print-related capabilities and e-commerce solutions that respond to the needs of our customers, we believe that our Company has a competitive advantage that will help us generate additional sales. We provide a variety of fulfillment services, which primarily include assembling, packaging, storing, and distributing printed promotional, educational, and training documents and materials on behalf of our customers. Many corporations utilize our fulfillment capabilities to help manage their inventories of printed materials, as well as to provide “just in time” assembly and delivery of printed materials to end users. Orders for fulfillment services are commonly received via proprietary, Internet-based print procurement and inventory management systems maintained by our printing businesses, as discussed below. Additionally, we provide extensive mailing services for printed materials, particularly consumer-direct marketing, advertising and promotional pieces produced for our customers. We also offer a number of options for sorting, packaging, inkjet labeling and shipping of printed materials. Utilizing our information technology infrastructure and resources, as well as our expertise in digital technology, we offer print-related e-commerce solutions that enable our customers to (i) streamline their print procurement process and improve their ability to manage the printed materials they order and (ii) design, procure, distribute, track and analyze results of printing-based marketing programs and activities. Most of these e-commerce solutions are Internet-based, and like the printed materials we produce, are customized to the specific needs of our customers. For marketing purposes, we refer to our e-commerce capabilities using the “CGXSolutions” trademark. The key e-commerce capabilities we offer include: • StoreFront A fully customizable online system with an array of tools that streamline the purchase, management and distribution of the customer’s entire range of marketing materials • CrossMedia A unique capability that enables the customer to create highly engaging personalized one-to-one direct mail campaigns designed to increase response rates • Digital asset management A powerful online system that provides the customer limitless means to organize, protect and facilitate proper use of their vast library of digital assets • Digital print solutions Provides print on demand capabilities giving the customer the flexibility to respond to market changes and manage inventories more efficiently. Our distribute and print system receives orders electronically, prepares them for production and distributes them across our network of digital presses across the U.S., reducing time to market and delivering product more efficiently. Other e-commerce and electronic media services we offer include Internet services such as designing websites and programming interactive tools, CD-ROM development and production, foreign language translation services in over 100 different languages, composition and typesetting, and database management for customer-retention programs. Under our national sales organization (which is discussed below), sales support for CGXSolutions is provided to our printing businesses to assist them in identifying prospective customers and marketing our suite of CGXSolutions capabilities and services. We maintain CGXSolutions project management and staff to design and develop customized solutions in response to the specific needs of each customer. We also utilize support staff at each of our printing businesses who are trained and able to serve our customers’ needs related to our CGXSolutions capabilities and services. Sales and Marketing Most of our sales are generated by individual orders through commissioned sales personnel. As of April 30, 2008 we employed 688 sales professionals. In addition to soliciting business from existing and prospective customers, our sales personnel act as liaisons between customers and our production departments and also provide technical advice and assistance to customers throughout the printing process. The nature of commercial printing requires a substantial amount of interaction with customers, including personal sales calls, reviews of color proofs and “press checks” (customer approval of printed materials during the printing process). Our sales professionals and customer service personnel maintain strict control of the printing process for every job we produce as it moves through our scheduling, prepress, printing, and finishing operations. 7 Table of Contents A significant element of our marketing focus is to ensure rapid response to customer requirements and produce high-quality printed materials at competitive prices. Rapid responsiveness is essential because of the short lead time on most commercial printing projects. Our printing operations are designed to maintain maximum flexibility to meet customer needs, both on scheduled and short-notice bases. Each of our printing businesses generally seek projects that it believes will best utilize its respective equipment and expertise; however, each has access to and is encouraged to offer its customers the broad range of capabilities we offer throughout our organization. We also actively pursue opportunities to establish sole- or preferred-source, printing relationships with large corporations that are seeking to leverage their print spending and limit their number of commercial print providers. We refer to these customers as “national accounts” and aggregate sales to these customers as “National Sales.” To better position ourselves to capitalize on future national account opportunities, as well as to provide more sales training and support to our printing businesses, our national sales organization consists of an executive level team of sales and marketing professionals who play a key support role to the efforts of our printing businesses to identify and develop national account opportunities. In fiscal 2008, our Strategic Sales (consisting of National Sales and CGXSolutions sales) grew by 28% and represented 18% of our total revenues. We expect Strategic Sales to be a significant component of our overall future internal sales growth. Customers Our diverse customer base includes both national and local corporations in the U.S. and Canada operating in a wide range of industries, as well as mutual fund companies, advertising agencies, graphic design firms, catalog retailers, direct mail marketers, state and local governments and quasi-governmental agencies, education institutions, not-for-profit associations, and political campaign organizations. During fiscal 2008, we served over 20,000 customers, and our top ten customers accounted for approximately 9% of total sales, with none representing more than 3% individually. We believe that our large and diverse customer base, broad geographic coverage of U.S. and Canada and extensive range of printing and print-related capabilities may lessen our exposure to economic slowdowns or other adverse consequences that may generally affect any particular industry or any particular geographic region. However, because we typically produce a large number of advertising and marketing materials for our customers, to the extent that advertising and marketing spending is reduced during an economic downturn, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our customers generally are not contractually obligated to purchase printing services from us. Typically, we receive discrete orders from our customers for each printing project or service. Consequently, our continued engagement to provide additional commercial printing services largely depends upon, among other things, the customer’s satisfaction with the quality of services we provide. Although we do not depend on any one customer, group of customers or type of customer, our sales to many of our largest customers may fluctuate from year to year depending upon the number, size and complexity of projects they initiate and award us. Suppliers We purchase raw materials used in the commercial printing process (such as paper, prepress supplies, ink, and boxes) from a number of major U.S. and Canadian, as well as many local, suppliers. We are not materially dependent on any one supplier and the raw materials we utilize are generally readily available. We use a two-tiered approach to purchasing in order to maximize the economies associated with our size, while maintaining the local efficiencies and time sensitivity required to meet customer demands. We negotiate master purchasing arrangements centrally with major suppliers and manufacturers to obtain preferential pricing terms, and then communicate the terms of these arrangements to our individual printing businesses. Each printing business orders goods and services through our major vendors as needed based on the terms set forth in our master purchasing agreements or, when appropriate, purchases locally. We continually monitor market conditions and product developments, as well as regularly review the contractual terms of our master purchasing agreements, to take advantage of our increasing buying power and maximize the benefits associated with these agreements. None of our supplier contracts obligate us to minimum purchase requirements that would result in us having to purchase excessive quantities of goods or incur a financial penalty. We incur significant costs to purchase paper used in the printing process. However, fluctuations in paper pricing generally do not materially impact our operating margins because we typically quote, and subsequently purchase, paper for each specific printing project we are awarded. As a result, any changes in paper pricing are effectively passed through to customers by our printing businesses. The majority of our paper supply is obtained through merchant distributors. There are relatively few merchants that are considered national in scope in the U.S. and Canada, with numerous regional organizations that serve one or more of our printing businesses. We have negotiated master purchasing agreements with certain mills, which produce paper, and certain merchants, who distribute the paper produced by the mills. These agreements typically provide for volume-related discounts and additional periodic rebates based on the total amount of purchases made by our 8 Table of Contents printing businesses from each mill and/or merchant. Certain of our mill suppliers produce a Consolidated Graphics branded paper we named “Inspire”, under arrangements generally similar to our other major vendor agreements. “Inspire” enables us to further leverage our purchasing power and differentiate ourselves to customers in the marketplace. During 2008, we introduced “Inspire Earth”. This branded paper features the same overall quality characteristics of “Inspire,” is Forest Stewardship Council Certified, the global benchmark for responsible forest management, and contains 10% post-consumer waste. We also purchase a large quantity of prepress supplies, consisting mainly of plates and proofing materials. There are a limited number of key manufacturers of these materials, and we generally purchase prepress supplies from both major and regional distributors. We have obtained volume-related discounts and incentive arrangements from these manufacturers and receive periodic rebates based on the total amount of prepress supplies we purchase through these distributors. Employees As of April 30, 2008, we had 6,757 employees throughout our organization. Of this total, 807 were employed subject to the terms of various collective bargaining agreements, 462 of which are under collective bargaining agreements that have expired or will expire within one year. We are currently in negotiations for new collective bargaining agreements with unions at five of our printing businesses with expired collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory. Government Regulation and Environmental Matters Our printing businesses are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the U.S. and Canada as well as state, provincial and local laws and regulations concerning emissions into the air, discharges into waterways and the generation, handling and disposal of waste materials. The commercial printing process generates substantial quantities of inks, solvents and other waste products requiring disposal under the numerous laws and regulations relating to the environment. Our printing businesses typically recycle waste paper and contract for the removal of waste products. We believe our Company is in material compliance with all applicable air quality, waste disposal and other environmental-related rules and regulations, as well as with other general employee health and safety laws and regulations. We do not anticipate any material future capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that future changes in environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy, postage and other raw materials may adversely impact us. Purchases of paper, ink, energy, postage and other raw materials and goods and services represent a large portion of our costs. Any increases in the costs of these items will also increase our costs. Depending on the timing and severity of such increases we may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. Increases in the costs of these items may also adversely impact our customers’ demand for printing and related services. We may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials. We are dependant on the availability of paper, ink, and other raw materials to support our operations. Circumstances outside of our control in these markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper, ink or other raw materials and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The financial condition of our customers may deteriorate and could affect payment of amounts owed to us. We grant credit to substantially all of our customers. A decline in financial condition across a significant component of our customer base could hinder our ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline could result in lower demand for our services. The potential causes of such a decline include broad or local economic downturns, the fact that many of our customers are in highly-competitive industries or markets, and the impact of regulatory actions. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to improve our operating efficiencies rapidly enough to meet market conditions. Because the markets in which we compete are highly-competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. Although we have been able to improve efficiency and reduce costs in the past, there is no assurance that we will continue to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily shift senior management’s attention from the other day-to-day operations of the Company. Our strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our capabilities and services. We may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including senior management. Our success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of our employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Although our operating platform consists of many locations with a wide geographic dispersion, individual locations may encounter strong competition from other employers for skilled labor. In addition, various members of our management team have significant industry experience and a long track record with us that is important to our continued success. If one or more members of our senior management team leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, which could harm our business and results of operations. Costs to provide health care and certain other benefits to our employees may increase. We generally provide health care and certain other benefits to our employees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting our business and results of operations. Declines in general economic conditions or acts of war and terrorism may adversely impact our business. Demand for printing services is highly correlated with general economic conditions. A decline in U.S. economic conditions may, therefore, adversely impact our business and results of operations. Because such outcomes are difficult to predict, the industry may experience excess capacity resulting in declines in prices for our services. The overall business climate may also be impacted by domestic and foreign wars or acts of terrorism. Such acts may have sudden and unpredictable adverse impacts on demand for our services. The highly competitive market for our services may create adverse pricing pressures. The markets for our services are highly fragmented and we have a large number of competitors, resulting in a highly competitive market and increasing risk of adverse pricing pressures in various circumstances outside of our control, including economic downturns. Decline in preference for using or receiving printed materials in lieu of alternative mediums may adversely affect our business. In addition to traditional non-print based marketing and advertising channels, online distribution and hosting of media content may gain broad acceptance or preferred status relative to printed materials among consumers generally and could have an adverse effect on our business. Consumer acceptance of electronic delivery as well as the extent that consumers may have previously replaced traditional reading of print material with online hosted media contents is uncertain. We have no ability to predict the likelihood that this may occur. 10 Table of Contents Changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations, as well as those associated with being a public company. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state, provincial, national or foreign governments or agencies. Changes in these regulations may result in a significant increase in our compliance costs. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations could require increases to our workforce, increased cost for services, compensation and benefits, or investments in new or upgraded equipment. Advances in technology may reduce barriers to entry and may result in increased competition. Future advances in technology could cause certain cost and logistics barriers to entry in the general commercial printing industry to be reduced or eliminated, which may result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Current cost barriers include the relatively large scale of equipment and real estate required to effectively compete in our industry, while logistics barriers include shipping, customer service and other costs that have historically precluded competitors not having a local presence from competing effectively from outside of a particular market, particularly foreign-based competitors. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems for many enterprise-critical functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems. We generally rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, job entry, tracking, production, distribution and cost accumulation and certain purchasing functions. Our information technology infrastructure underlies both our management information systems and our CGXSolutions capabilities. The failure of our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, Internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We generally do not have long-term customer agreements. Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase future services from us. Although our business does not depend on any one customer or group or type of customers, we cannot be sure that any particular customer will continue to do business with us for any period of time. We depend on good labor relations. If the employees at one or more of our unionized businesses were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage for any reason, including failure to enter into satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions, or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on the ability to borrow cash to make acquisitions, fund capital expenditures and provide working capital to the extent such cash needs exceed our internally generated cash flow. We currently have adequate capacity under our primary bank credit facility as well as other sources of capital to fund our foreseeable cash needs in excess of our projected internally-generated cash flows. However, adverse changes in general economic conditions or in our financial performance could cause a limitation in the amount of capital available to us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and growth strategies. A decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. We have a significant amount of goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred taxes on our balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, could cause an impairment related to goodwill, other long-lived assets, or deferred tax assets and require us to record an impairment charge against income. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 