Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or focused on or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 15 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Our Business Our Banking subsidiary is operating under a Consent Order with the FDIC and DFI and the Company is operating under a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to address, among other things, lending, credit and capital related issues. In light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our elevated level of non-performing assets, delinquencies and adversely classified assets, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and additional regulatory restrictions and have become subject to certain enforcement actions under a Consent Order issued by the FDIC and DFI to the Bank on March 4, 2010 and Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Board entered into on March 4, 2010. These enforcement actions followed the FDIC’s regularly scheduled examination of our banking subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2009 and are based on discussions the Bank had following the examination. Such enforcement actions place limitations on our business and may adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. These enforcement actions require, among other things, the Bank to take certain steps to strengthen its balance sheet, such as reducing the level of classified assets, increasing capital levels and addressing other criticisms of the examination. These enforcement actions are more fully discussed in “Supervision and Regulation – Regulatory Order and Written Agreement” and Note 22. Regulatory Order and Written Agreement, of the consolidated financial statements, filed on this Form 10-K. If the Company fails to comply with these enforcement actions, it may become subject to further regulatory enforcement actions up to and including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the Bank. Even though the Bank remains well-capitalized, the regulatory agencies have the authority to restrict our operations to those consistent with adequately capitalized institutions. For example, the regulatory agencies have imposed restrictions that place limitations on our lending activities. The regulatory agencies also have the power to limit the rates paid by the Bank to attract retail deposits in its local markets. Our Level of Classified Assets Expose Us to Increased Lending Risk. Further, if Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Insufficient to Absorb Losses in Our Loan Portfolio, Our Earnings May Decline If the level of loans the Bank currently categorizes as substandard and doubtful do not perform according to the terms and/or the underlying collateral for such loans is insufficient to cover the Bank’s recorded investment, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb potential losses. This could result in additional loan losses which may further adversely impact our operating results. Further, our level of classified assets will take time to resolve. While we believe that we are making progress in identifying and resolving classified assets, no assurance can be given that we will continue to make progress, particularly if the local economies in which we operate suffer further deterioration. We believe that the Company’s allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable, estimable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the probability of such borrowers making payments, as well as the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining an appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, significant factors we consider include: loss experience in particular segments of the portfolio, trends and absolute levels of classified loans, trends and absolute levels in delinquent loans, trends in risk ratings, trends in industry charge-offs by particular segments and changes in existing general economic and business conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our regulators, as an integral part of their regular examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase it by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We Are Highly Dependent On Real Estate and Any Further Downturn in the Real Estate Market May Hurt Our Business A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. A decline in current economic conditions, a decline in the local housing market or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans, the value of real estate owned by us, as well as our financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value of our common stock. Acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans may also negatively impact our financial condition. We Have Concentration in Higher Risk Commercial Real Estate Loans We have high concentration in commercial real estate (“CRE”) loans. CRE loans, as defined by final guidance issued by Bank regulators, are defined as construction, land development, other land loans, loans secured by multi-family (5 or more units) residential properties and loans secured by non-farm non-residential properties. Following this definition, approximately 65.1% of our lending portfolio can be classified as CRE lending as of December 31, 2010. CRE loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than certain other types of lending due, among other things, to the generally large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, commercial real estate loans generally depend on the cash flow from the property to service the debt. Cash flow may be significantly affected by general economic conditions which may result in non-performance by certain borrowers. Additionally, federal banking regulators recently issued final guidance regarding commercial real estate lending. This guidance suggests that institutions that are potentially exposed to significant commercial real estate concentration risk will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Institutions that have experienced rapid growth in commercial real estate lending, have notable exposure to a specific type of commercial real estate lending or are approaching or exceed certain supervisory criteria that measure an institution’s commercial real estate portfolio against its capital levels, may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny because of our commercial real estate portfolio and, as a result, the Bank must develop or revise, adopt, and implement a plan to systematically reduce the amount of loans within this category as outlined in the Consent Order issued to the Bank on March 4, 2010. Liquidity Risk Could Impair Our Ability to Fund Operations and Jeopardize Our Financial Condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in general. We Depend On Cash Dividends From Our Subsidiary Bank To Meet Our Cash Obligations, but Our Consent Order and Written Agreement Prohibit the Payment of Such Dividends Without Prior Regulatory Approval Which May Impair Our Ability to Fulfill Our Obligations As a holding company, dividends from our subsidiary bank provide a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust preferred securities, our preferred stock and other obligations, including any cash dividends. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiary bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. As outlined in the Consent Order and Written Agreement, previously mentioned, the Bank cannot pay any cash dividends or other payments to the holding company without prior written consent of the regulatory authorities. Additionally, the Company cannot declare or pay any dividends (including those on outstanding preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program) or make any distributions of principal, interest or other sums on its trust preferred securities without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. To date, we have deferred four payments on our TARP preferred stock. If we defer six dividend payments, the U.S. Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our Board. 17 Table of Contents The Recent Recession and Changes in Domestic and Foreign Financial Markets Have Adversely Affected Our Industry and May Have a Material Impact on Our Operating Results and Financial Condition The recent recession has resulted in significant business failures and job losses. Further, dramatic declines in the housing market with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant losses to many financial institutions. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and volatility in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. These challenging conditions may not improve in the near future and we may face the following risks as a result: · Increased regulation of our industry, compliance with which may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. · Higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. · If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, to our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Cannot Accurately Predict the Effect of the Current Economic Downturn on Our Future Results of Operations or Market Price of Our Stock The national economy and the financial services sector in particular remain challenged with weakness in the broader economy despite high levels of government stimulus. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in our markets would have an adverse effect which could be material on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline. Recently Enacted Legislation and Other Measures Undertaken by the U.S. Treasury, the FRB and Other Governmental Agencies Over the Last Two Years May Not Result in Improved Economic Conditions On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law, which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: authority for the FRB to pay interest on depository institution balances; and mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under the TARP, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the FRB, Congress, Treasury and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; and other emergency actions designed to stabilize the financial sector and mitigate economic pressures. 18 Table of Contents On February 17, 2009, The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Bill”) was signed into law. The Stimulus Bill included a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. If, as a result of the above actions taken, economic conditions do not improve, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted beyond what has been realized. FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments May Increase Substantially Which Would Adversely Affect Our Net Earnings FDIC deposit insurance premiums for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2.7 million. The Company currently expects the level of deposit insurance premiums to remain elevated for the foreseeable future which will impact future operating results. Declines in Asset Values May Result in Impairment Charges and Adversely Affect the Value of Our Investments, Financial Performance and Capital We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities. The market value of investments in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile over the last two years. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the servicer of the securities or the mortgages underlying the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate investments and other assets for impairment. We may be required to record impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the charges occur. For a more detailed discussion of investments the Company holds, including other than temporary impairment recognized during 2010, please see Note 2. Investments, of the consolidated financial statements, filed on this Form 10-K. Our Business Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk and Changes in Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Our Performance and Financial Condition Our earnings and cash flows are highly dependent upon net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Our net interest income (including net interest spread and margin) and overall earnings are impacted by changes in interest rates and monetary policy. Changes in interest rates and monetary policy can impact the demand for new loans, the credit profile of our borrowers, the yields earned on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, we would expect our interest rate spread (the difference in the rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities and the yields earned on interest-earning assets) as well as net interest income to increase if interest rates rise and, conversely, to decline if interest rates fall. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates (such as a sudden and substantial increase in Prime and Overnight Fed Funds rates) as well as increasing competition may require the Bank to increase rates on deposits at a faster pace than the increase in the rate it earns on interest-earning assets. The impact of any sudden and substantial move in interest rates and/or increased competition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as the Bank’s net interest income (including the net interest spread and margin) may be negatively impacted. Additionally, a sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to prepay existing higher-rate, fixed-rate loans by refinancing to lower interest rates loan. Under those circumstances, we may not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on the prepaid loans. Failure to Successfully Execute Our Strategy May Adversely Affect Our Performance Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to execute our corporate growth strategy. Continued growth, however, may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. 19 Table of Contents Factors that may adversely affect our ability to attain our long-term financial performance goals include those stated elsewhere in this section, as well as: inability to control non-interest expense, including, but not limited to, rising employee compensation costs, regulatory compliance, healthcare cost, limitations imposed on us in the Consent Order and/or Written Agreement, inability to increase non-interest income and continuing ability to expand, through de novo branching or identifying acquisition targets at attractive valuation levels. We Face Strong Competition from Financial Service and Other Companies That Offer Banking Service Which May Hurt Our Business The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition in attracting and retaining core business relationships. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services business may reduce our market share, decrease loan demand, cause the prices we charge for our services to fall, result in a decline in the rates we charge on loans and/or cause higher rates to be paid on deposits. Therefore, our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature and level of competition. Additionally, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them without offering very high compensation. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Because of Our Participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (‘‘TARP’’), We Are Subject to Several Restrictions, Including Restrictions on Compensation Paid to Our Executives Certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance apply to us for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds an equity position in us. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include, among other things, (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required claw back of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes, executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. Pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the ‘‘Stimulus Bill’’), more commonly known as the economic stimulus recovery package, further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation, have been imposed on our senior executive officers and most highly compensated employees. Such restrictions and any future restrictions on executive compensation, which may be adopted, could adversely affect our ability to hire and retain senior executive officers. Our Internal Operations Are Subject to a Number of Risks We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents · Information Systems We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. · Technological Advances The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. · Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. For example, the Central Coast of California is subject to earthquakes and fires. Operations in our market could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. While we have not experienced such an occurrence to date, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Industry We Are Subject to Government Regulation That May Limit or Restrict Our Activities Which May Adversely Impact Our Operations The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and State regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or repeal of existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. We anticipate that continued compliance with various regulatory provisions will impact future operating expenses. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects economic conditions which may impact the Bank. New Legislative and Regulatory Proposals May Affect Our Operations and Growth Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks and financial institutions and federal insurance premiums paid by banks and financial institutions and companies that control such institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and the impact such changes might have on us or our subsidiaries are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting treatment applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies, the IRS and other appropriate authorities. 21 Table of Contents The likelihood and impact of any additional future changes in law or regulation and the impact such changes might have on us or our subsidiaries are impossible to determine at this time. Risks Associated With Our Stock Our Participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) May Pose Certain Risks to Holders of Our Common Stock Under the terms of the CPP, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury $21.0 million in preferred stock and a warrant to purchase approximately $3.2 million of the Company’s common stock. Although the Company believes that its participation in the CPP is in the best interests of our shareholders in that it enhances Company and Bank capital and provides additional funds for future growth, it may pose certain risks to the holders of our common stock such as the following: · Under the terms outlined by the U.S. Treasury for participants in the CPP, the Company issued a warrant to the U.S Treasury to purchase shares of its common stock. The issuance of this warrant may be dilutive to current common stockholders in that it reduces earnings per common share. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant is exercised. The U.S. Treasury has the right to purchase 611,650 shares of our common stock at a price of $5.15 per share, which would result in an approximate 2.4% ownership interest. · Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction and therefore has the ability to become a shareholder of the Company and possess voting power. · The preferred equity issued to the U.S. Treasury is non-voting, however, the terms of the CPP stipulate that the U.S. Treasury may vote their senior equity in matters deemed by the U.S. Treasury to have an impact on their holdings. · The Purchase Agreement between the Company and the U.S Treasury provides that before the earlier of (1) March 20, 2012 and (2) the date on which all of the shares of the preferred stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to third parties, we may not, without consent of the U.S. Treasury, (a) increase the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock above $0.08 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the preferred stock. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the preferred stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury, may have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. · Although the Company does not foresee any material changes to the terms associated with its participation in the CPP, the U.S. Government, as a sovereign body, may at any time change the terms of our participation in the CPP and or significantly influence Company policy. For more information about the Company’s participation in the CPP, see Note 21. Preferred Stock, of the consolidated financial statements, filed on this Form 10-K. Our Outstanding Preferred Stock Impacts Net Income Available to Our Common Stockholders and Earnings per Common Share and May be Dilutive to Common Stockholders Accrued dividends and the accretion on our outstanding preferred stock reduce net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, our Series C Preferred Stock may be dilutive to common stockholders to the extent the Company is profitable and must consider the dilutive nature of these securities in its calculation of earnings per common share. Also, the Company’s preferred stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding-down. 22 Table of Contents Our Stock Trades Less Frequently Than Others Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial service companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Our Stock Price is Affected by a Variety of Factors Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors discussed in this section, including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and perceptions in the marketplace regarding our company and/or its competitors and the industry in which we operate. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the public offering price. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. Any Future Issuance of Preferred or Common Stock Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common Stock We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We frequently evaluate opportunities to access the capital markets, taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations. In March of 2010, the Company raised gross proceeds of approximately $60.0 million though a private placement, as more fully disclosed in Note 21. Preferred Stock, of the consolidated financial statements, filed on this Form 10-K. Any future issuances of equity may result in additional common shares outstanding and/or reduce the amount of income available to common shareholders. In addition, we face significant regulatory and other governmental risk as a financial institution and as a participant in the CPP and it is possible that capital requirements and directives may, in the future, require us to change the amount or composition of our current capital including common equity. As a result we may determine, or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital. There may also be market perceptions regarding the capital we raised in 2010 or the need to raise additional capital, which may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Holders of Our Junior Subordinated Debentures Have Rights That Are Senior to Those of Our Common Shareholders We have supported our continued growth through two issuances of trust preferred securities from two separate special purpose trusts, one of which was dissolved in 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding trust preferred securities totaling $8.0 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years during which time no cash dividends may be paid on our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit Our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, As Well As Certain Banking Laws, May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may hinder a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 