Item 1A. Risk Factors Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy, postage and other raw materials may adversely impact us. Purchases of paper, ink, energy, postage and other raw materials and goods and services represent a large portion of our costs. Any increases in the costs of these items will also increase our costs. Depending on the timing and severity of such increases we may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. Increases in the costs of these items may also adversely impact our customers’ demand for printing and related services. The financial condition of our customers may deteriorate and could affect payment of amounts owed to us. We grant credit to substantially all of our customers. A decline in financial condition across a significant component of our customer base could hinder our ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline could result in lower demand for our services. The potential causes of such a decline include broad or local economic downturns, the fact that many of our customers are in highly-competitive industries or markets, and the impact of regulatory actions. We may not be able to improve our operating efficiencies rapidly enough to meet market conditions. Because the markets in which we compete are highly-competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. Although we have been able to improve efficiency and reduce costs in the past, there is no assurance that we will continue to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily shift senior management’s attention from the other day-to-day operations of the Company. Our strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our capabilities and services. We may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including senior management. Our success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of our employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Although our operating platform consists of many locations with a wide geographic dispersion, individual locations may encounter strong competition from other employers for skilled labor. In addition, many members of our management have significant industry experience and a long track record with us that is important to our continued success. If one or more members of our senior management team leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, which could harm our business and results of operations. Costs to provide health care and certain other benefits to our employees may increase. We generally provide health care and certain other benefits to our employees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting our business and results of operations. Declines in general economic conditions or acts of war and terrorism may adversely impact our business. Demand for printing services is highly correlated with general economic conditions. A decline in U.S. economic conditions may, therefore, adversely impact our business and results of operations. Because such outcomes are difficult to 9 Table of Contents predict, the industry may experience excess capacity resulting in declines in prices for our services. The overall business climate may also be impacted by domestic and foreign wars or acts of terrorism. Such acts may have sudden and unpredictable adverse impacts on demand for our services. The highly competitive market for our services may create adverse pricing pressures. The markets for our services are highly fragmented and we have a large number of competitors, resulting in a highly competitive market and increasing the risk of adverse pricing pressures in various circumstances outside of our control, including economic downturns. Decline in preference for using or receiving printed materials in lieu of alternative mediums may adversely affect our business. In addition to traditional non-print based marketing and advertising channels, online distribution and hosting of media content may gain broad acceptance or preferred status relative to printed materials among consumers generally and could have an adverse effect on our business. Consumer acceptance of electronic delivery as well as the extent that consumers may have previously replaced traditional reading of print material with online hosted media contents is uncertain. We have no ability to predict the likelihood that this may occur. Changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations as well as those associated with being a public company. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state, provincial or national governments or agencies. Changes in these regulations may result in a significant increase in our compliance costs. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations could require increases to our workforce, increased cost for services, compensation and benefits, or investments in new or upgraded equipment. Advances in technology may reduce barriers to entry and may result in increased competition. Future advances in technology could cause certain cost and logistics barriers to entry in the general commercial printing industry to be reduced or eliminated, which may result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Current cost barriers include the relatively large scale of equipment and real estate required to effectively compete in our industry, while logistics barriers include shipping, customer service and other costs that have historically precluded competitors not having a local presence from competing effectively from outside of a particular market, particularly foreign-based competitors. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems for many enterprise-critical functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems. We generally rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, job entry, tracking, production, distribution and cost accumulation and certain purchasing functions. Our information technology infrastructure underlies both our management information systems and our CGXSolutions capabilities. The failure of our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, Internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We generally do not have long-term customer agreements. Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase future services from us. Although our business does not depend on any one customer or group or type of customers, we cannot be sure that any particular customer will continue to do business with us for any period of time. We depend on good labor relations. If the employees at one or more of our unionized businesses were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on the ability to borrow cash to make acquisitions, fund capital expenditures and provide working capital to the extent such cash needs exceed our internally generated cash flow. We currently have a modest level of indebtedness and adequate capacity under our primary bank credit facility as well as other sources of capital to fund our foreseeable cash needs in excess of our projected internally-generated cash flows. 10 Table of Contents However, adverse changes in general economic conditions or in our financial performance could cause a limitation in the amount of capital available to us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and growth strategies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 