Item 1A. Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are beyond our ability to control or predict. Any one of such influences, or a combination, could materially affect the results of our operations and the accuracy of forward-looking statements made by us. Some important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements includes the following: 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Businesses We have a significant amount of debt and our business is highly cyclical in nature due to our dependency on the levels of offshore oil and gas drilling and subsea construction activity. Our forecasted cash and available credit capacity are not expected to be sufficient (i) to meet our commitments as they come due over the next twelve months and (ii) remain in compliance with our debt covenants unless we are able to successfully sell additional assets, access cash in certain of our subsidiaries, minimize our capital expenditures, effectively manage our working capital, obtain waivers or amendments from our lenders and improve our cash flows from operations. In depressed markets, our ability to pay debt service and other contractual obligations will depend upon us improving our cash flow generation, which in turn will be affected by prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we have difficulty providing for debt service or other contractual obligations in the future, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or delaying non-regulatory maintenance expenditures and other operating and administrative costs, selling assets, refinancing or reorganizing our debt or other obligations and seeking additional equity capital, or any combination of the above. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets would delay or reduce future cash flows. We may not be able to undertake any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. The failure to successfully complete construction or conversion of our vessels on schedule, on budget, or at all without a corresponding reduction in capital expenditures, or to successfully utilize such vessels and the other vessels in our fleet at profitable levels could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have three MPSVs currently under construction. Our fleet upgrade program may result in additional vessel construction projects and/or the conversion or retrofitting of some of our existing vessels. Our construction and conversion projects may be delayed, incur cost overruns or fail to be completed as a result of factors inherent in any large construction project, including, among other things, shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, shipyard bankruptcy, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. Shortages of raw materials and components resulting in significant delays for vessels under construction, conversion, or retrofit could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows if such delays exceed the liquidated damages provisions in our contracts or any vessel delivery insurance we may have. In addition, customer demand for vessels currently under construction or conversion may not be as strong as we presently anticipate, and our inability to obtain contracts on anticipated terms or at all may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to continue as a going concern. Absent completion of certain actions that are not solely within our control, we do not expect our forecasted cash and credit availability to be sufficient to meet our commitments as they come due over the next twelve months. As a result, there is substantial doubt we can continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might result from the uncertainty associated with our ability to meet our obligations as they come due. In order to continue as a going concern, we will need to (i) sell additional assets, (ii) access cash in certain of our subsidiaries, (iii) minimize our capital expenditures, (iv) obtain waivers or amendments from our lenders, (v) effectively manage our working capital and (vi) improve our cash flows from operations. Completion of the foregoing actions is not solely within our control and we may be unable to successfully complete one or all of these actions. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we will need to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 (Risks, Uncertainties, and Going Concern) to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Our failure to retain key employees and attract additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy or operating our business effectively. We depend on the technical and other experience of management and employees in our subsea services and subsea trenching and protection business segments to fully implement our strategy. Although we have employment agreements in place with certain of our current executive officers, we may not be able to retain the services of these individuals and the loss of their services, in the absence of adequate replacements, would harm our ability to implement our business strategy and operate our business effectively. 16 Table of Contents Increased competitive forces in the subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services markets could adversely affect our business. The markets for subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services are highly competitive. While price is the main competitive factor, the ability to acquire specialized vessels and equipment, to attract and retain skilled personnel, and to demonstrate a good safety record are also important. Several of our competitors in both the subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services market have greater financial and other resources and more experience operating in international areas than we have. We believe that other vessel owners are beginning to offer subsea services and subsea trenching and protection services to their customers. If other companies acquire vessels or equipment, or begin to offer integrated subsea services to customers, levels of competition may increase and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, any reduction in rates offered by our competitors or growing disparity in fuel efficiency between our fleet and those of our competitors may cause us to reduce our rates and may negatively impact the utilization of our vessels, which will negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Time chartering of our subsea services and subsea trenching and protection vessels require us to make payments absent revenue generation which could adversely affect our operations. Many of our subsea services and subsea trenching and protection vessels are under time charter contracts. Should we not have work for such vessels, we are still required to make time charter payments and such payments absent revenue generation could have an adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our towing and supply fleet includes many older vessels that may require increased levels of maintenance and capital expenditures to be maintained in good operating condition, are less efficient than newer vessels, and may be subject to a higher likelihood of mechanical failure, an inability to economically return to service or requirement to be scrapped. If we are unable to manage the aging of our fleet efficiently and find profitable market opportunities for our vessels, our results will deteriorate and our financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, the average age of our towing and supply vessels was approximately 21 years. The average age of many of our competitors’ fleets is substantially younger than ours. Our older towing and supply fleet is generally less technologically advanced than many newer fleets, is not capable of serving all markets, may require additional maintenance and capital expenditures to be kept in good operating condition and as a consequence may be subject to longer or more frequent periods of unavailability. Prolonged periods of unavailability of one or more of our older vessels could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we expect that our fleet is less fuel efficient than our competitors’ newer fleets, putting us at a competitive disadvantage because our customers are responsible for the fuel costs they incur. Our ability to continue to upgrade our fleet depends on our ability to commission the construction of new vessels as well as the availability in the market of newer, more technologically advanced vessels with the capabilities to meet our customers’ increasing requirements. If we are unable to manage the aging of our fleet efficiently and find profitable market opportunities for our vessels, our results will deteriorate and our financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Increases in size, quality and quantity of the offshore vessel fleet in areas where we operate could increase competition for charters and lower day rates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Charter rates for marine support vessels in our market areas depend on the supply of and demand for vessels. Excess vessel capacity in the offshore support vessel industry is primarily the result of either construction of new vessels or the mobilization of existing vessels into fully saturated markets along with lower demand. There are a large number of vessels currently under construction and our competitors have new vessels to be delivered over the next few years. In recent years, we have been subject to increased competition from both new vessel construction, particularly in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as vessels mobilizing into regions in which we operate. Any increase in the supply of offshore supply vessels, whether through new construction, refurbishment or conversion of vessels from other uses, remobilization or changes in the law or its application, could increase competition for charters and lower day rates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to maintain our Jones Act status, we could be disadvantaged in the U.S. subsea market, which would adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. We operate in a number of markets around the world, and our plans contemplate entering certain subsea services markets, including in the United States. Coastwise maritime trade in the U.S. is subject to U.S. laws commonly referred collectively to as the 17 Table of Contents Jones Act, and together with the Shipping Act, 1916, the Shipping Acts. In the third quarter of 2009, we exited this segment of business in the United States. However, we expect decommissioning and deep water projects in the Gulf of Mexico to comprise an important part of our subsea strategy, which may require continued compliance with the Jones Act. We were recently awarded our first subsea services contract in the U.S. The Shipping Acts require that vessels engaged in the U.S. coastwise trade and other services generally be owned by U.S. citizens and built in the U.S. For a corporation engaged in the U.S. coastwise trade to be deemed a U.S. citizen: (i) the corporation must be organized under the laws of the U.S. or of a state, territory or possession thereof, (ii) each of the president or other chief executive officer and the chairman of the board of directors of such corporation must be a U.S. citizen, (iii) no more than 25% of the directors of such corporation necessary to the transaction of business can be non-U.S. citizens and (iv) at least 75% of the interest in such corporation must be owned by U.S. “citizens” (as defined in the Shipping Acts). The Jones Act also treats as a prohibited “controlling interest” any (i) contract or understanding by which more than 25% of the voting power in the corporation may be exercised, directly or indirectly, on behalf of a non-U.S. citizen and (ii) the existence of any other means by which control of more than 25% of any interest in the corporation is given to or permitted to be exercised by a non-U.S. citizen. Our charter contains provisions that limit non-U.S. citizen ownership of our stock and the status of certain officers and directors in the same manner as the Jones Act and authorizes us and our board of directors to take actions designed to effectuate the purpose of permitting us to remain eligible to engage in the U.S. coastwise maritime trade. Should we fail to comply with the U.S. citizenship requirements of the Shipping Acts, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade during the period of such non-compliance, and under certain circumstances would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coast wide trading rights for our U.S.-flag vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. If we are unable to maintain our Jones Act status, it could be harder for us to sustain operations in the U.S. subsea market, which would adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. In the absence of continuing to qualify to conduct business under the Jones Act, we believe that we could become less competitive when competing against foreign providers of subsea services who regularly provide such services in the United States. If a stockholder conducts another proxy contest in connection with a meeting of our stockholders, it could be costly and disruptive. Kistefos AS, a holder of approximately 18.1% of our outstanding common stock, made nine proposals to be voted on by our stockholders at our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, including proposals to elect two of Kistefos’ employees to our board of directors. Our board opposed eight of Kistefos’s proposals. In connection with the meeting, Kistefos also filed a lawsuit against us regarding the legality of one of Kistefos’s proposals. As a result of these events, the costs associated with our 2009 annual meeting were significantly higher than normal. Our expenses related to the solicitation (in excess of those normally spent for an annual meeting with an uncontested director election and excluding salaries and wages of our regular employees and officers) were approximately $1.6 million during the year ending December 31, 2009. We believe Kistefos still wishes to have two of its employees elected to our Board. If Kistefos or other stockholder(s) conduct a proxy contest or submit proposals to be considered at a meeting of stockholders and we oppose such actions, we may incur significant expenses above the amounts normally spent for an annual meeting. Any such contest could also be a distraction to our management who may be required to devote a significant portion of their time to the contest instead of the operation of our business. Our U.S. employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Some of our employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws preempt state workers’ compensation laws and permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related incidents in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees or their representatives. Unionization efforts could increase our costs, limit our flexibility or increase the risk of a work stoppage. On December 31, 2009, approximately 40.6% of our employees worldwide were working under collective bargaining agreements, all of whom were working in Norway, the United Kingdom or Brazil, where such agreements are required to exist. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. Any such unionization could increase our costs, limit our flexibility or increase the risk of a work stoppage. The removal or reduction of the reimbursement of labor costs by the Norwegian government may adversely affect our costs to operate our vessels in the North Sea. 18 Table of Contents During July 2003, the Norwegian government began partially reimbursing us for labor costs associated with the operation of our vessels. These reimbursements totaled $5.7 million in 2009. If this benefit is reduced or removed entirely, our direct operating costs will increase substantially and negatively impact our profitability. Certain management decisions needed to successfully operate EMSL, our 49% partnership, are subject to the majority owner’s approval. The inability of our management representatives to reach a consensus with the majority owner may negatively affect our results of operations. We hold a 49% equity interest in EMSL and COSL holds the remaining equity interest of 51%. Although our management representatives from time to time may want to explore business opportunities and enter into material agreements which they believe are beneficial for EMSL, all decisions with respect to any material actions on the part of EMSL also require the approval of the representatives of COSL. A failure of COSL and our management representatives to reach a consensus on managing EMSL could materially hinder our ability to successfully operate the partnership. Our business plan involves establishing joint ventures with partners in targeted foreign markets. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. Our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with U.S. laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law and a determination that we violated the FCPA, including actions taken by our foreign agents or joint venture partners, may adversely affect our business and operations. As we are a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that United States law and regulations prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in foreign jurisdictions, such as Nigeria and Mexico, we utilize local agents and seek to establish joint ventures with local operator or strategic partners. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including actions taken by our agents and our strategic or local partners, even though our agents and partners are not subject to the FCPA), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our marine operations are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. As a result, our results of operations will vary throughout the year. In the North Sea, adverse weather conditions during the winter months impact offshore development operations. Activity in the Gulf of Mexico may also be subject to stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. If the operating results of our subsea services or subsea trenching and protection segments is adversely affected, an impairment of intangibles could result in a write down. We have certain intangible assets consisting of trade names and customer relationships which we acquired in connection with the DeepOcean acquisition in 2008 with carrying values of $31.3 million and $85.2 million, respectively. Based on factors and circumstances impacting our subsea services and subsea trenching and protection segments and the business climate in which we operate, we may determine that it is necessary to perform an impairment assessment prior to the fourth quarter of 2010 to re-evaluate the carrying value of our unamortized trade name intangible assets, and we may need to perform an assessment of the carrying value of our amortized intangible customer relationship assets. If changes in the industry, market conditions, or government regulation negatively impact our subsea services or subsea trenching and protection segments, resulting in lower operating income, if assets are damaged, or if any circumstance occurs which results in the fair value of any segment declining below its carrying value, our intangible assets would be impaired. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could require us to make substantial expenditures. We must comply with federal, state and local regulations, as well as certain international conventions, the rules and regulations of certain private industry organizations and agencies, and laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which our vessels operate and are registered. These regulations govern, among other things, worker health and safety and the manning, construction, and operation of vessels. These organizations establish safety criteria and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend approved safety standards. If we fail to comply with the requirements of any of these laws or the rules or regulations of these agencies and organizations, we could be subject to substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctive relief. Norwegian authorities have announced they are considering modifying safety regulations applicable to our fleet in the North Sea. If these modifications are implemented, we may incur substantial compliance costs. Our operations also are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment and that otherwise relate to environmental protection. While our insurance policies provide coverage for accidental occurrence of seepage and pollution or clean up and containment of the foregoing, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We may incur substantial costs in complying with such laws and regulations, and noncompliance can subject us to substantial liabilities. The laws and regulations applicable to us and our operations may change. If we violate any such laws or regulations, this could result in significant liability to us. In addition, any amendment to such laws or regulations that mandates more 19 Table of Contents stringent compliance standards would likely cause an increase in our vessel operating expenses. The loss of a key customer could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our operations, particularly in the North Sea, China, West Africa, Mexico, and Brazil, depend on the continuing business of a limited number of key customers. Two of our customers, Statoil and Blue Whale Offshore Engineering Technology Company, or Blue Whale, each represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenues during 2009. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected if any of our key customers in these regions terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew our existing contracts, or refuses to award new contracts to us. The early termination of contracts on our vessels could have an adverse effect on our operations. Some long-term contracts for our vessels contain early termination options in favor of the customer. While some of these contracts have early termination penalties or other provisions designed to discourage the customers from exercising such options, we cannot assure you that our customers would not choose to exercise their termination rights in spite of such penalties. Additionally, customers without contractual termination rights may choose to terminate their contacts despite the threat of litigation from us. Until replacement of such business with other customers, any termination of long-term contracts could temporarily disrupt our business or otherwise adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We might not be able to replace such business on economically equivalent terms. Certain deferred taxes could be accelerated and the effective tax rate on certain Norwegian guarantors’ income could be increased if Trico Shipping and certain of the Norwegian guarantors failed to comply with the Norwegian tonnage tax regime. Some of the Norwegian entities within the Trico Supply Group have untaxed shipping income under the Norwegian tonnage tax regime. To comply with the Norwegian tonnage tax regime, certain conditions must be fulfilled and the failure to comply with any such condition, even if the failure is unintentional, may lead to adverse tax consequences. In order to comply with tonnage tax requirements, a Norwegian tonnage tax entity cannot own shares in a non-publicly listed entity except for other Norwegian tonnage tax entities. Subsequent to the acquisition of DeepOcean ASA by Trico, Trico completed a corporate restructuring to comply with this and other requirements. Trico had until January 31, 2009 to transfer its ownership interest in DeepOcean AS and the non-tonnage tax entities. Failure to comply with this deadline would have resulted in the income of Trico Shipping AS being subject to a 28% tax rate and an exit tax liability, currently payable over a ten-year period, becoming due and payable immediately. In connection with the corporate restructuring completed in January 2009, the ownership of DeepOcean AS and its non-tonnage tax related subsidiaries were transferred to Trico Supply AS and the tonnage tax related entities owned by DeepOcean AS became subsidiaries of Trico Shipping AS. If it is determined by the assessment authorities that this restructuring, including the transfer of ownership interest in DeepOcean AS, did not comply with the requirements of the tonnage tax regime, or if some other failure to comply with the provisions is found to have occurred, all of the accumulated untaxed income of Trico Shipping AS would be subject to a 28% tax rate. Furthermore, if other failures to comply were found to have occurred with respect to Trico Shipping or the Norwegian guarantors within the Norwegian tonnage tax regime, the income of the company in question would be subject to a 28% tax rate in the year of such failure to comply and each year thereafter if not cured within the required time frame or the company in question does not reinstate its tonnage eligibility in future years. Any such outcome could adversely affect our financial position. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. Our refund guarantees may not be valid or cover all of our losses in the event of a termination of our newbuild vessel construction contracts. Trico Subsea AS currently has seven contracts for construction of vessels at the Tebma shipyard in India. Currently Trico Subsea AS has agreed with the shipyard that it is entitled to suspend construction of four of these vessels (Hulls No. 120, 121, 128 and 129), while three vessels (Hulls No. 117, 118 and 119) will be completed. Under the construction contracts, Trico Subsea AS is entitled to receive refunds of certain of the sums paid to Tebma under certain provisions of the construction contracts (including interest at a rate of 6% per annum from the date of payment to the date of refund) if the contracts are lawfully terminated by Trico Subsea AS. Trico Subsea AS has refund guarantees covering approximately $21.0 million with respect to the four suspended vessels, a portion of which covers certain equipment paid for by Trico Subsea AS. With regard to the three vessels being completed Trico Subsea AS has refund guarantees covering approximately $29.3 million. If the shipyard is not able to satisfy its obligation to refund the sums paid for any of the seven vessels, Trico Subsea AS will be entitled to draw on the refund guarantees, or in the case of the suspended vessels, access a 20 Table of Contents combination of the refund guarantees and the equipment paid for by Trico Subsea AS. In the case of the suspended vessels, there can be no assurance that the total value of the refund guarantees and the value of the equipment totals $21.0 million. In the case of the three vessels to be completed, we do not have refund guarantees for approximately $10 million of payments related to certain vessel modifications. The refund guarantees have expiration dates and need to be periodically renewed. To date, we have been able to obtain renewals of these refund guarantees. However, there can be no assurance that the current refund guarantees will be renewed by the existing financial institutions or, if not renewed, replacement refund guarantees can be obtained. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers and certain other third parties, and nonpayment by our customers could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers and certain other third parties or the failure by the shipyard to build or timely deliver the MPSVs currently on order, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, which in turn could reduce our ability to pay interest on, or the principal of, our credit facilities. If any of our key customers defaults on its obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Our inability to recruit, retain and train crew members may affect our ability to offer services, reduce operational efficiency and increase our labor rates. The delivery of all of our new vessels will require the addition of a significant number of new crew members. Operating these vessels will also require us to increase the level of training for certain crew members. In addition, in each of the markets in which we operate, we are vulnerable to crew member departures. Our inability to retain crew members or recruit and train new crew members in a timely manner may adversely affect our ability to provide certain services, reduce our operational efficiency and increase our crew labor rates. Should we experience a significant number of crew member departures and a resulting increase in our labor rates and interruptions in our operations, our results of operations would be negatively affected. Our operations are subject to operating hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. Marine support vessels are subject to operating risks such as catastrophic marine disasters, natural disasters (including hurricanes), adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure, crew negligence, collisions, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors. Some of these operating risks may increase as we provide subsea services jointly with our partners in the subsea market, and our vessels serve as platforms for subsea work. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to, or loss of, our vessels and our vessels’ tow or cargo or other property and may result in injury to passengers and personnel, including employees of our partners in the subsea market. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in operating costs or liability to third parties. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of these risks, which our management considers to be customary in the industry. We can make no assurances that we can renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. In addition, concerns about terrorist attacks, as well as other factors, have caused significant increases in the cost of our insurance coverage. The cost and availability of drydock services may impede our ability to return vessels to the market in a timely manner. From time to time our vessels undergo routine drydock inspection, maintenance and repair as required under U.S. Coast Guard regulations and in order to maintain American Bureau of Shipping, Det Norske Veritas or other vessel certifications for our vessels. If the cost to drydock, repair, or maintain our vessels should continue to increase, or if the availability of shipyards to perform such services should decline, then our ability to return vessels to work at sustained day rates, or at all, could be materially affected, and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. We may face material tax consequences or assessments in countries in which we operate. If we are required to pay material tax assessments, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We conduct business globally and, as a result, one or more of our subsidiaries files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business we are subject to examination by taxing authorities worldwide, including such major jurisdictions as Norway, Mexico, Brazil, Nigeria, Angola, Hong Kong, China, and the United States. 21 Table of Contents During the past three years, our Brazilian subsidiary received non-income related tax assessments from Brazilian state tax authorities totaling approximately 56.8 million Brazilian Reais ($32.8 million at December 31, 2009) in the aggregate and may receive additional assessments in the future. The tax assessments are based on the premise that certain services provided in Brazilian federal waters are considered taxable as transportation services. If the courts in these jurisdictions uphold the assessments, it would have a material adverse effect on our net income, liquidity and operating results. We do not believe any liability in connection with these matters is probable and, accordingly, have not accrued for these assessments or any potential interest charges for the potential liabilities. Currency fluctuations and economic and political developments could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the size of our international operations, a significant percentage of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We primarily are exposed to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Norwegian Kroner, the British Pound, the Euro, the Brazilian Real, and the Nigerian Naira. Changes in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could result in translation adjustments reflected as a component of other comprehensive income or losses in shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet. To the extent we owe obligations to our creditors in foreign currencies, exchange rate fluctuations may magnify such risks. In addition, translation gains and losses could contribute to fluctuations or movements in our income. The majority of the debt at Trico Supply is denominated in U.S. Dollars while a significant portion of our operating revenues and expenses are denominated in other currencies. The strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against these currencies could have a negative impact of our ability to service this U.S. Dollar denominated debt. We are also exposed to risks involving political and economic developments, royalty and tax increases, changes in laws or policies affecting our operating activities, and changes in the policies of the United States affecting trade, taxation, and investment in other countries. The rights of Trico Subsea AS under the vessel construction contracts for the Trico Star, Trico Service and Trico Sea with the Tebma Shipyard in India may be impaired if it is determined that there was not a proper novation of such contracts. Construction contracts for the Trico Star, Trico Service and Trico Sea were transferred from the previous owner to Trico Subsea AS (formerly, Active Subsea AS) under Norwegian laws. The construction contracts, however, are governed by English law; consequently, an arbitration tribunal could determine that there was not a proper novation of the construction contracts under English law. Operating internationally subjects us to significant risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets, such as West Africa. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others: • increasing trends in certain countries that favor or require that vessels operating in its waters carry the flag of that country, be owned by a local entity and /or be manufactured in that country. This may negatively impact our ability to win and maintain contracts in these countries; • government instability, which may cause investment in capital projects by our potential customers to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; • potential vessel seizure or confiscation, or the expropriation, nationalization or detention of assets; • imposition of additional withholding taxes or other tax on our foreign income, imposition of tariffs or adoption of other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls and currency repatriation limitations; • exchange rate fluctuations, which may reduce the purchasing power of local currencies and cause our costs to exceed our budget, reducing our operating margin in the affected country; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; 22 Table of Contents • civil uprisings, riots, and war, which may make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules, and expose us to losses; • availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crew members or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; • decrees, laws, regulations, interpretations and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and • acts or piracy or terrorism, including kidnappings of our crew members or onshore personnel. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure To meet our commitments and remain in compliance with debt covenants over the next twelve months requires us to generate additional cash flows by accomplishing certain items that are not within our sole control. We believe that our forecasted cash and available credit capacity are not expected to be sufficient to meet our commitments as they come due over the next twelve months and that we will not be able to remain in compliance with our debt covenants unless we are able to successfully sell additional assets, access cash in certain of our subsidiaries, minimize our capital expenditures, obtain waivers or amendments from our lenders, effectively manage our working capital and improve our cash flows from operations. We may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. We may also not be able to seek amendments or waivers on existing credit covenants on terms that are favorable to us. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. The re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding on acceptable terms, if at all. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, then, as a consequence of these changes in the credit markets, we cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities in sufficient amounts, either because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or because our borrowing base may decrease as a result of lower asset valuations, operating difficulties, lending requirements or regulations, or for any other reason. Moreover, even if lenders and institutional investors are willing and able to provide adequate funding, interest rates may rise in the future and therefore increase the cost of borrowing we incur on any of our floating rate debt. Finally, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional equity financing or seek third-party financing to satisfy such obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that our business, liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations will not be materially and adversely impacted in the future as a result of the existing or future credit market conditions. Our holding company structure and the terms of the Senior Secured Notes may adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries and a majority of our profits are generated by Trico Supply and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to meet our obligations depends on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon 23 Table of Contents the ability of such subsidiaries to provide us with cash, whether in the form of management fees, dividends, loans or otherwise, and to pay amounts due on our obligations. Dividends, loans and other distributions to us from such subsidiaries may be subject to contractual and other restrictions. For example, under the terms of the Senior Secured Notes, our business has been effectively split into two groups: (i) Trico Supply, where substantially all of our subsea services business and all of our subsea protection business resides along with our North Sea towing and supply business and (ii) Trico Other, whose business is comprised primarily of our non North Sea towing and supply businesses. Trico Other has the obligation, among other things, to pay the debt service related to the 8.125% Debentures and the 3% Debentures and to pay the majority of corporate related expenses while Trico Supply has the obligation to make debt service payments related to the Senior Secured Notes. Under the terms of the Senior Secured Notes, the ability of Trico Supply to provide cash and other funding on an ongoing basis to Trico Other is limited by restrictions on Trico Supply’s ability to pay dividends and interest on intercompany debt unless certain financial measures are met. Because of these restrictions, our ability to meet our obligations at each of Trico Supply and Trico Other depends on the results of operations of our businesses included within these groups. The ability of each of Trico Supply, Trico Other, and the Company overall to obtain minimum levels of operating cash flows and liquidity to fund their operations, meet their debt service requirements, and remain in compliance with their debt covenants, is dependent on its ability to accomplish the following: (i) secure profitable contracts through a balance of spot exposure and term contracts, (ii) achieve certain levels of vessel and service spread utilization, (iii) deploy its vessels to the most profitable markets, and (iv) invest in a technologically advanced subsea fleet. The forecasted cash flows and liquidity for each of Trico Supply, Trico Other, and the Company are dependent on each meeting certain assumptions regarding fleet utilization, average day rates, operating and general and administrative expenses, and in the case of Trico Supply, new vessel deliveries, which could prove to be inaccurate. A material deviation from one or more of these estimates or assumptions by either Trico Supply or Trico Other could result in a violation of one or more of our contractual covenants which could result in all or a portion of our outstanding debt becoming immediately due and payable. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, to comply with debt covenants and to make payments on our indebtedness. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $733.9 million, which represents approximately 88.1% of our capitalization. Our interest expense in 2009 was $50.1 million and will increase in 2010 as certain lower rate bank debt has been replaced with the Senior Secured Notes that have a higher coupon rate. Our substantial level of indebtedness may adversely affect our flexibility in responding to adverse changes in economic, business or market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The substantial level of our indebtedness may have important consequences, including the following: • making it more difficult to pay interest and satisfy debt obligations; • requiring dedication of a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limiting flexibility in planning for, or responding to, adverse changes in the business and the industry in which we operate; • increasing vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse developments in business; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any less leveraged competitors; and • limiting our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, substantially all of the material assets of the Trico Supply Group secure the Senior Secured Notes, the guarantees and the Trico Shipping Working Capital Facility (“Working Capital Facility”), which may limit the ability of the Trico Supply Group to generate liquidity by selling assets. In the past two years, we have amended several of our credit facilities and received waivers prior to the completion of some of the amendments in order to comply with the covenants contained in our credit facilities. In December 2009, we amended certain financial covenants related to our $50 million U.S. Revolving Credit Facility (“U.S. Credit Facility”). The calculation of the minimum net worth covenant was amended to permanently eliminate the effect of the impairment charge taken at December 31, 2009 related to the cancellation of certain shipbuilding contracts. The consolidated leverage ratio covenant was also amended for each of the quarters 24 Table of Contents ending between December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2010 to increase the maximum allowable level. In conjunction with these changes, the availability under the facility was reduced to $15 million until our consolidated leverage ratio levels are less than those in effect prior to this amendment. Continued compliance with our debt covenants is dependent upon us obtaining a minimum level of EBITDA, as defined in our credit agreement, and liquidity for the remainder of 2010. Our forecasted EBITDA contains certain estimates and assumptions regarding new vessel deliveries, fleet utilization, average day rates, and operating and general and administrative expenses, which could prove to be inaccurate. A deviation from one or more of these estimates or assumptions could result in a violation of one or more of our covenants. If a violation were to occur, there are no assurances that we could obtain additional waivers or amendments to these covenants. Failure to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments would result in all or a portion of our debt becoming immediately due and payable. Currently, we do not expect to be in compliance with the consolidated leverage ratio covenant as of each of March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, and September 30, 2010 in the U.S. Credit Facility which will require us to obtain waivers or amendments from our lender. There can be no assurance that these additional waivers or amendments can be obtained or that additional amendments and waivers will not be required. Due to this expectation that we will need further amendments and / or waivers and the fact that we have required previous amendments to remain in compliance with certain debt covenants, the U.S. Credit Facility and the Working Capital Facility, because of the cross default provision, have been classified as current as of December 31, 2009. Holders of our 8.125% Debentures have the right to convert their debentures into our common stock. Additionally, if they convert after May 1, 2011, they have the right to receive a make-whole interest payment. As of the date hereof, there are approximately $202.8 million principal amount of the 8.125% Debentures outstanding. Should the remaining holders of such debentures convert after May 1, 2011, we would be required to pay approximately $23.3 million in cash related to the interest make-whole provision and issue approximately 11.6 million shares of our common stock based on the initial conversion rate of 71.43 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures. At that time, such conversions could significantly impact our liquidity and we may not have sufficient funds to make the required cash payments. Our failure to convert or pay the make-whole interest payment under the terms of the debentures or to pay amounts outstanding under our debt agreements when due would constitute events of default under the terms of the debt, which in turn, could constitute an event of default under all of our outstanding debt agreements. Our business is cyclical in nature due to dependency on the levels of offshore oil and gas drilling and subsea construction activity, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and/or to refinance indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future, which will be affected by, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, such that currently anticipated business opportunities will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, reducing or delaying non-regulatory maintenance expenditures and other operating and administrative costs, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt or seeking additional equity capital, or any combination of the foregoing. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets would delay or reduce future cash flows. In addition, the indenture for the Senior Secured Notes and the credit agreement governing the Working Capital Facility, as well as credit agreements governing various debt incurred by us may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. Similarly, the indentures and credit agreements governing various debt incurred by us may restrict us and our subsidiaries from adopting some or all of these alternatives. Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. Our inability to repay our outstanding debt would have a material adverse effect on us. We do not expect that our forecasted cash flows and available credit capacity, absent the completion of certain liquidity related events, will be sufficient to meet our commitments and remain in compliance with our debt covenants. For a complete description of our indebtedness, please read Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Our indentures and credit agreements impose significant restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The indentures and credit agreement governing our indebtedness contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain types of equity or equity linked securities; 25 Table of Contents • pay distributions on, purchase or redeem capital stock or purchase or redeem subordinated indebtedness; • make loans and investments; • create or permit certain liens; • sell or lease assets, including vessels and other collateral; • engage in sale leaseback transactions; • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • reflag vessels outside of certain jurisdictions; • engage in certain business activities not related to or incidental to the provision of subsea and marine support services, subsea trenching and protection services or towing and supply services; • materially impair any security interest with respect to the collateral; and • restrict distributions or other payments to us or other subsidiaries. These restrictions could limit our ability to repay existing indebtedness, finance future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. In addition, the U.S. Credit Facility requires maintenance of specified financial ratios and satisfaction of certain financial covenants. We will need to negotiate a waiver or amendment to our consolidated leverage ratio debt covenant on this facility as we do not expect to be in compliance with it beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that the lenders will agree to this amendment / waiver and / or, if required, other amendments / waivers on acceptable terms. A failure to do so would provide the lenders the opportunity to declare the associated debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt. If the debt is declared due and payable, this would result in a default under other debt agreements, and we may be unable to pay amounts due on our debt. We cannot assure you that we will meet these financial ratios or satisfy these covenants and events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, may ultimately affect our ability to do so. Additionally, we may be required to take action to reduce debt or to act in a manner contrary to business objectives to maintain compliance with these covenants or to obtain required amendments or waivers. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards or foreign tax credits may be limited by certain events which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. At December 31, 2009, we had estimated net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of $67.4 million for federal income tax purposes that are set to expire beginning in 2023 through 2028. Any future change in our ownership may limit the ultimate utilization of our NOLs pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). An ownership change may result from, among other things, transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. If we cannot utilize these NOLs, then our liquidity position could be materially and adversely affected. Our charter documents include provisions limiting the rights of foreign owners of our capital stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that no shares held by or for the benefit of persons who are non-U.S. citizens that are determined, collectively with all other shares so held, to be in excess of 24.99% of our outstanding capital stock (or any class thereof) are entitled to vote or to receive or accrue rights to any dividends or other distributions of assets paid or payable to the other holders of our capital stock. Those shares determined to be in excess of 24.99% shall be the shares determined by our board of directors to have become so owned most recently. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that, at the option of our board, we may redeem such excess shares for cash or for promissory notes with maturities not to exceed ten years and bearing interest at the then-applicable rate for U.S. treasury instruments of the same tenor. U.S. law currently requires that no more than 25% of our capital stock (or of any other provider of domestic maritime support vessels) may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are non-U.S. citizens. 26 Table of Contents Similarly, the limitations on voting power of the corporation also limit the percentage of non-U.S. citizens that may serve on our board of directors. Currently, our charter limits the number of non-U.S. citizen directors to no more than a minority of the quorum. Should that number increase such that the number of non-U.S. citizen directors would have more than 25% of the voting power of the corporation, we could lose our ability to engage in coastwise trade. If this charter provision is ineffective, then ownership of 25% or more of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens could result in the loss of our ability to engage in coastwise trade, which would negatively affect our towing and supply business, and possibly result in the imposition of fines and other penalties. As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that approximately 18.4% of our capital stock was held by non-U.S. citizens. Our charter and bylaws may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions dividing our board of directors into classes of directors, granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for nominations for election to our board of directors and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. These provisions may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers and preventing you from getting a premium for your shares that would have otherwise been offered or delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Provisions of our debentures could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our 8.125% Debentures, 3% Debentures, and Senior Secured Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of our debentures will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their debentures or any portion of the principal amount of such debentures in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required either to pay an interest make-whole payment or to issue additional shares upon conversion, or to provide for conversion into the acquirer’s capital stock in the event that a holder converts his debentures prior to and in connection with certain fundamental changes, which may have the effect of making an acquisition of us less attractive. The Senior Secured Notes entitle the holders to be repaid an amount greater than the par amount. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events, or on the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. A substantial number of shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale upon conversion of the 8.125% Debentures, certain amortization payments relating to the 8.125% Debentures and exercise of the phantom stock units, and the sale of those shares could adversely affect our stock price. The 8.125% Debentures are convertible into 14,486,572 shares of common stock based on a conversion price of $14.00. The 8.125% Debentures also amortize on a quarterly basis beginning on August 1, 2010. These amortization payments, at our election, may be made in cash or stock. If paid in stock, the amount of shares issued is determined by the market price of the stock at the time of the amortization payment and the resulting number of shares may be substantially greater than 14,486,572. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreement that we entered into with West Supply IV, we registered 1,352,558 shares of our common stock issuable, in certain circumstances, to West Supply IV upon the exercise of the phantom stock units for resale. Consequently, a substantial number of shares of our common stock will be eligible for public sale upon conversion of the debentures, the payment of certain amortization payments in stock and exercise of the phantom stock units. If a significant portion of these shares were to be offered for sale at any given time, the public market for our common stock and the value of our common stock owned by our stockholders could be adversely affected. Our stockholders will experience substantial dilution if the 8.125% Debentures are converted, amortization payments relating to the 8.125% Debentures are paid in stock and the phantom stock units are exercised for shares of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents The 8.125% Debentures are convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 71.43 shares per $1,000 principal amount of debentures. The 8.125% Debentures also amortize on a quarterly basis beginning on August 1, 2010. These amortization payments, at our election, may be made in cash or stock. If paid in stock, the amount of shares issued is determined by the market price of the stock at the time of the amortization payment which could be significantly less than $14.00 and result in additional shares being issued. In addition, the phantom stock units issued to West Supply IV and certain members of DeepOcean management represent the right to receive an aggregate of up to 1,581,902 shares of our common stock of which 226,109 shares were exercised in 2009. If shares of our common stock are issued upon conversion of the debentures, amortization payments relating to the 8.125% Debentures are paid in stock and holders exercise the phantom stock units, the result would be a substantial dilution to our existing stockholders of both their ownership percentages and voting power. Due to our expected liquidity position and limitations in the U.S. Credit Facility, we expect to make the amortization payments of approximately $10 million due on the 8.125% Debentures on each of August 1, 2010 and November 1, 2010 in common stock. We will need shareholder approval to pay certain amortization payments for the 8.125% Debentures in stock. Without shareholder approval, we may not be able to make as many amortization payments in stock as we would like. This would require payments in cash which would negatively impact our liquidity position. We may be required to repurchase our debentures for cash upon specified events, which include a fundamental change, or pay cash upon conversion of our debentures. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 3% Debentures on each of January 15, 2014, January 15, 2017 and January 15, 2022. In addition, holders of the 3% Debentures and 8.125% Debentures may require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity. In addition, upon conversion of the 3% Debentures and 8.125% Debentures, under certain circumstances holders may receive a cash payment. The terms of the Senior Secured Notes allow the holders the right to put the notes back to us at 101% of par value in the event of a change of control. Such conversions could significantly impact liquidity, and we may not have sufficient funds to make the required repurchase in cash or cash payments at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase the debentures or notes in cash or to pay cash upon conversion of the debentures or notes may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time restricting our ability to purchase the debentures or notes for cash or pay cash upon conversion of your debentures or notes. If we fail to repurchase the debentures or notes in cash or pay cash upon conversion of our debentures under circumstances where such payment would be required by the indenture governing the debentures, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the debentures or notes, which, in turn, could constitute an event of default under the agreements relating to our debt outstanding at such time. Under certain debt agreements, an event of default will be deemed to have occurred if we or certain subsidiaries have a change of control. Additionally, certain of our debt agreements contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions that trigger defaults under our other debt agreements. Under cross-default provisions in several agreements governing our indebtedness, a default or acceleration of one debt agreement will result in the default and acceleration of our other debt agreements (regardless of whether we were in compliance with the terms of such other debt agreements). A default, whether by us or any of our subsidiaries, could result in all or a portion of our outstanding debt becoming immediately due and payable and, in such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. Such cross-defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our credit facilities. For additional information about our debt facilities and cross-default provisions, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the level of exploration and production expenditures, in oil and gas prices or industry perceptions about future oil and gas prices could materially decrease our cash flows and reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Our revenues are primarily generated from entities operating in the oil and gas industry in the North Sea, the Asia Pacific Region, West Africa, Brazil, Mexico and the Gulf of Mexico. As of December 31, 2009, our international operations account for approximately 99% of our revenues and are subject to a number of risks inherent to international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, unanticipated assessments from tax or regulatory authorities, and changes in laws or regulations. These factors could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Because our revenues are generated primarily from customers having similar economic interests, our operations are susceptible to market volatility resulting from economic or other changes to the oil and gas industry (including the impact of hurricanes). Changes in the level of exploration and production expenditures, in oil and gas prices, or industry perceptions about future oil and gas prices could materially decrease our cash flows and reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Demand for our services depends heavily on activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. The offshore rig count is ultimately the driving force behind the day rates and utilization in any given period. Depending on when we enter into long-term contracts, and their duration, the positive impact on us of an increase in day rates could be mitigated or delayed, and the negative impact on us of a decrease in day rates could be exacerbated or prolonged. This is particularly relevant to the North Sea market, where contracts tend to be longer in duration. A decrease in activity in the areas in which we operate could adversely affect the demand for our marine support services and may reduce our revenues and negatively impact our cash flows. A decline in demand for our services could also prevent us from securing long-term contracts for the vessels we have on order. If market conditions were to decline in market areas in which we operate, it could require us to evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets, which may result in write-offs or write-downs on our vessels that may be material individually or in the aggregate. Moreover, increases in oil and natural gas prices and higher levels of expenditure by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production may not necessarily result in increased demand for our services or vessels. If our competitors are able to supply services to our customers at a lower price, then we may have to reduce our day rates, which would reduce our revenues. Certain of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and more experience operating in international areas than we have. Competition in the subsea and marine support services businesses primarily involves factors such as: • price, service, safety record and reputation of vessel operators and crews; • fuel efficiency of vessels; and • quality and availability of equipment and vessels of the type, capability and size required by the customer. Any reduction in rates offered by our competitors or growing disparity in fuel efficiency between our fleet and those of our competitors may cause us to reduce our rates and may negatively impact the utilization of our vessels, which will negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. During the past year, there has been substantial volatility and uncertainty in worldwide equity and credit markets that could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. Due to this economic condition, there has been a reduction in demand for energy products that has resulted in declines in oil and gas prices, which is a significant part of most of our customers’ business. In addition, due to the substantial uncertainty in the global economy, there has been deterioration in the credit and capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. These conditions could have an adverse effect on our industry and our business, including our future operating results and the ability to recover our assets at their stated values. Our customers may curtail their capital and operating expenditure programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our vessels and a reduction in day rates and/or utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us, in the event they are unable to access the capital markets to fund their business operations. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect our operations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 