Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk of Inability to Maintain Growth Rate The Company has experienced significant sales growth in past years. While management expects continued growth, Blyth’s future growth rate will likely be less than its historical growth rate. The Company expects faster sales growth in its international market versus its United States market. The Company’s ability to increase sales depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of existing products, the successful introduction of new products, growth of consumer discretionary spending, the ability to recruit new independent sales consultants, sourcing of raw materials and demand-driven increases in production and distribution capacity. Business in all of Blyth’s segments is driven by consumer preferences. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that the Company’s current or future products will maintain or achieve market acceptance. Blyth’s sales and earnings results can be negatively impacted by the worldwide economic environment, particularly the United States, Canadian and European economies. There can be no assurances that the Company’s financial results will not be materially adversely affected by these factors in the future. 8 The Company’s historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions, and management continues to consider additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurances that management will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on terms favorable to the Company, finance acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired operations. Risks Associated With International Sales and Foreign-Sourced Products Blyth’s international sales growth rate has outpaced that of its United States growth rate in recent years. Moreover, the Company sources a portion of its products in all of its business segments from independent manufacturers in the Pacific Rim, Europe and Mexico. For these reasons, Blyth is subject to the following risks associated with international manufacturing and sales: fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic or political instability, international public health crises, transportation costs and delays, difficulty in maintaining quality control, restrictive governmental actions, nationalizations, the laws and policies of the United States, Canada and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes) and the trade and tax laws of other nations. Ability to Respond to Increased Product Demand The Company’s ability to meet future product demand in all of its business segments will depend upon its success in: sourcing adequate supplies of its products; bringing new production and distribution capacity on line in a timely manner; improving its ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly; improving customer service-oriented management information systems; and training, motivating and managing new employees. The failure of any of the above could result in a material adverse effect on Blyth’s financial results. Risk of Shortages of Raw Materials Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in requirements, weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. Such shortages have not had and are not presently expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of petroleum wax, it is possible that recent fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse affect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of our products, particularly in the Direct Selling and Wholesale business segments. Dependence on Key Corporate Management Personnel Blyth’s success depends in part on the contributions of key corporate management, including its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert B. Goergen, as well as the members of the Office of the Chairman: Robert H. Barghaus, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bruce G. Crain, Senior Vice President and President, Wholesale Group; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., Vice President and President, Catalog & Internet Group; and Frank P. Mineo, Senior Vice President and President, Direct Selling Group. The Company does not have employment contracts with any of its key corporate management personnel except the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nor does it maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of any of the key corporate management personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Risk of Increased Competition Blyth’s business is highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide market for Home Expressions products is highly fragmented with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by the Company. In addition, the Company competes for 9 direct selling consultants with other direct selling companies. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in all of Blyth’s business segments, the Company may face increased competition from other companies, some of which may have substantially greater financial or other resources than those available to Blyth. Competition includes companies selling candles manufactured at low cost outside of the United States. Moreover, certain competitors focus on a single geographic or product market and attempt to gain or maintain market share solely on the basis of price. Risks Related to Information Technology Systems Blyth’s information technology systems are dependent on global communications providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and outages in the past. Blyth’s systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit internal operations, the ability to provide customer service or the ability of customers or sales personnel to access our information systems. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 10 