Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the risks described below occurs, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it deems immaterial, may also impair its business or operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OR CONDITION The Company depends principally on commercial movie exhibitors to purchase or lease IMAX theater systems, to supply box office revenue under joint revenue sharing arrangements and under its sales and sales-type lease agreements and to supply venues in which to exhibit IMAX DMR films and the Company can make no assurances that exhibitors will continue to do any of these things. The Company’s primary customers are commercial multiplex exhibitors, who represent 95% of the 224 systems in the Company’s backlog as at December 31, 2010. The Company is unable to predict if, or when, they or other exhibitors will purchase or lease IMAX theater systems or enter into joint revenue sharing arrangements with the Company, or whether any of the Company’s existing customers will continue to do any of the foregoing. If exhibitors choose to reduce their levels of expansion or decide not to purchase or lease IMAX theater systems or enter into joint revenue sharing arrangements with the Company, the Company’s revenues would not increase at an anticipated rate and motion picture studios may be less willing to reformat their films into the Company’s format for exhibition in commercial IMAX theaters. As a result, the Company’s future revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. The success of the IMAX theater network is directly related to the availability and success of IMAX DMR films for which there can be no guarantee. An important factor affecting the growth and success of the IMAX theater network is the availability of films for IMAX theaters and the box office success of such films. The Company produces only a small number of such films and, as a result, the Company relies principally on films produced by third party filmmakers and studios, particularly Hollywood features converted into the Company’s large format using the Company’s IMAX DMR technology. The Company’s first IMAX DMR film, Apollo 13: The IMAX Experience, was released to 48 IMAX theaters, and the Company’s most recent IMAX DMR film at December 31, 2010, Tron: Legacy: An IMAX 3D Experience, was released to 366 IMAX theaters. There is no guarantee that filmmakers and studios will continue to release IMAX films, or that the films they produce will be commercially successful. The steady flow and successful box office performance of IMAX DMR releases have become increasingly important to the Company’s financial performance as the number of joint revenue sharing arrangements included in the overall IMAX network has grown considerably. Not only is the Company increasingly directly impacted by box-office results for the films released to the IMAX network through its joint revenue sharing arrangements, as well as a percentage of the box-office receipts from the studios releasing IMAX DMR films, but the Company’s continued ability to sell and lease IMAX theater systems also depends on the number and commercial success of films released to its network. The commercial success of films released to IMAX theaters depends on a number of factors outside of the Company’s control, including whether the film receives critical acclaim, the timing of its release and the success of the marketing efforts of the studio releasing the film. Moreover, films can be subject to delays in production or changes in release schedule, which can negatively impact the number, timing and quality of IMAX DMR and IMAX original films released to the IMAX theater network. The introduction of new products and technologies could harm the Company’s business. The out-of-home entertainment industry is very competitive, and the Company faces a number of competitive challenges. According to the National Association of Theater Owners, as at December 31, 2010, there were approximately 8,000 conventional-sized screens in U.S. multiplexes equipped with digital 3D systems. In addition, some commercial exhibitors have recently introduced or announced an intention to introduce their own large-screen 3D auditoriums. The Company may also face competition in the future from companies in the entertainment industry with new technologies and/or substantially greater capital resources to develop and support them. If the Company is unable to continue to remain a premium movie-going experience, or if other technologies surpass 16 Table of Contents those of the Company, the Company may be unable to continue to produce theater systems which are premium to, or differentiated from, other theater systems. If the Company is unable to produce a premium theater experience, consumers may be unwilling to pay the price premiums associated with the cost of IMAX movie theater tickets and box office performance of IMAX films may decline. Declining box office performance of IMAX films would materially and adversely harm the Company’s business and prospects. The Company also faces in-home competition from a number of alternative motion picture distribution channels such as home video, pay-per-view, video-on-demand, DVD, Internet and syndicated and broadcast television. The Company further competes for the public’s leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including gaming, sporting events, concerts, live theater and restaurants. The Company is undertaking new lines of business and these new business initiatives may not be successful. The Company is actively exploring new areas of brand extension as well as opportunities in alternative theater content. These initiatives represent new areas of growth for the Company, which may not prove to be successful. Some of these initiatives could include the offering of new products and services that may not be accepted by the market. For instance, the Company cannot provide assurance that 3net, a 3D television channel operated by a Limited Liability Corporation owned by the Company, Discovery Communications and Sony Corporation which debuted on February 13, 2011, will be a commercial success. Some areas of potential growth, including 3net, are in the field of in-home entertainment technology, which is an intensively competitive business and which is dependent on consumer demand, over which the Company has no control. If any new business in which the Company invests or attempts to develop does not progress as planned, the Company may be adversely affected by investment expenses that have not led to the anticipated results, by the distraction of management from its core business or by damage to its brand or reputation. In addition, these initiatives may involve the formation of joint ventures and business alliances. While the Company seeks to employ the optimal structure for each such business alliance, there is a possibility that the Company may have disagreements with its relevant partner in a joint venture or business with respect to financing, technological management, product development, management strategies or otherwise. Any such disagreement may cause the joint venture or business alliance to be terminated. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property, and competitors could misappropriate its technology, which could weaken its competitive position. The Company depends on its proprietary knowledge regarding IMAX theater systems and digital and film technology. The Company relies principally upon a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, restrictions on disclosures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary and intellectual property rights. These laws and procedures may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtain the Company’s processes and technology or deter others from developing similar processes or technology, which could weaken the Company’s competitive position and require the Company to incur costs to secure enforcement of its intellectual property rights. The protection provided to the Company’s proprietary technology by the laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect it as fully as the laws of Canada or the United States. Finally, some of the underlying technologies of the Company’s products and system components are not covered by patents or patent applications. The Company has patents issued and patent applications pending, including those covering its digital projector and digital conversion technology. The Company’s patents are filed in the United States, often with corresponding patents or filed applications in other jurisdictions, such as Canada, Belgium, Japan, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The patent applications pending may not be issued or the patents may not provide the Company with any competitive advantages. The patent applications may also be challenged by third parties. Several of the Company’s issued patents in the United States, Canada and Japan for improvements to IMAX projectors, IMAX 3D Dome and sound system components expire between 2016 and 2024. Any claims or litigation initiated by the Company to protect its proprietary technology could be time consuming, costly and divert the attention of its technical and management resources. Current economic conditions beyond the Company’s control could materially affect the Company’s business by reducing both revenue generated from existing IMAX theater systems and the demand for new IMAX theater systems. The macro-economic outlook for 2011 remains negative in many markets and the U.S. and global economies could remain significantly challenged for an indeterminate period of time. While historically the movie industry has proved to be somewhat resistant to economic downturns, present economic conditions, which are beyond the Company’s control, could lead to a decrease in discretionary consumer spending. It is difficult to predict the severity and the duration of any decrease in discretionary consumer spending resulting from the economic downturn and what affect it may have on the movie industry, in general, and box office results of the Company’s films in particular. In recent years, the majority of the Company’s revenue has been directly derived from the box- 17 Table of Contents office revenues of its films. Accordingly, any decline in attendance at commercial IMAX theaters could materially and adversely affect several sources of key revenue streams for the Company. The Company also depends on the sale and lease of IMAX theater systems to commercial movie exhibitors to generate revenue. Commercial movie exhibitors generate revenues from consumer attendance at their theaters, which depends on the willingness of consumers to spend discretionary income at movie theaters. While in the past, the movie industry has proven to be somewhat resistant to economic downturns, in the event of declining box office and concession revenues, commercial exhibitors may be less willing to invest capital in new IMAX theaters. In addition, as a result of continuing tight credit conditions that may limit exhibitors’ access to capital, exhibitors may be unable to invest capital in new IMAX theaters. A decline in demand for new IMAX theater systems could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The issuance of the Company’s common shares and the accumulation of shares by certain shareholders could result in the loss of the Company’s ability to use certain of the Company’s net operating losses. As at December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $21.7 million of U.S. consolidated federal tax and state tax net operating loss carryforwards. Realization of some or all of the benefit from these U.S. net tax operating losses is dependent on the absence of certain “ownership changes” of the Company’s common shares. An “ownership change,” as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, would place possible limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset any future taxable income that the Company may generate. Such limitations, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could significantly reduce or effectively eliminate the Company’s ability to use its U.S. net operating losses to offset any future taxable income. There is collection risk associated with payments to be received over the terms of the Company’s theater system agreements. The Company is dependent in part on the viability of its exhibitors for collections under long-term leases, sales financing agreements and joint revenue sharing arrangements. Exhibitors or other operators may experience financial difficulties that could cause them to be unable to fulfill their contractual payment obligations to the Company. As a result, the Company’s future revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company may not convert all of its backlog into revenue and cash flows. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s sales backlog included 224 theater systems, consisting of arrangements for 165 sales and lease systems and 59 theater systems under joint revenue sharing arrangements. The Company lists signed contracts for theater systems for which revenue has not been recognized as sales backlog prior to the time of revenue recognition. The total value of the sales backlog represents all signed theater system sale or lease agreements that are expected to be recognized as revenue in the future (other than those under joint revenue sharing arrangements) and includes initial fees along with the present value of fixed minimum ongoing fees due over the term, but excludes contingent fees in excess of fixed minimum ongoing fees that might be received in the future and maintenance and extended warranty fees. Notwithstanding the legal obligation to do so, not all of the Company’s customers with which it has signed contracts may accept delivery of theater systems that are included in the Company’s backlog. This could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and cash flows. In addition, customers with theater system obligations in backlog sometimes request that the Company agree to modify or reduce such obligations, which the Company has agreed to in the past under certain circumstances. Customer requested delays in the installation of theater systems in backlog remain a recurring and unpredictable part of the Company’s business. The Company conducts business internationally, which exposes it to uncertainties and risks that could negatively affect its operations and sales. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues are generated by customers located outside the United States and Canada. Approximately 30%, 35% and 32% of its revenues were derived outside of the United States and Canada in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As at December 31, 2010, approximately 66.1% of IMAX theater systems arrangements in backlog are scheduled to be installed in international markets. Accordingly, the Company expects to expand its international operations to account for an increasingly significant portion of its revenues in the future and plans to expand into new markets in the future. The Company does not have significant experience in operating in certain foreign countries and is subject to the risks associated with doing business in those countries. The Company currently has theater system installations projected in countries where economies have been unstable in recent years. In addition, the Company anticipates expanding into new markets in which the Company has no operational experience. The economies of other foreign countries important to the Company’s operations could also suffer slower economic growth or 18 Table of Contents instability in the future. The following are among the risks that could negatively affect the Company’s operations and sales in foreign markets: • new restrictions on access to markets, both for theater systems and films; • unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and potential currency devaluations; • new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and other trade barriers; • imposition of foreign exchange controls in such foreign jurisdictions; • dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • adverse changes in monetary and/or tax policies; • poor recognition of intellectual property rights; • inflation; • requirements to provide performance bonds and letters of credit to international customers to secure system component deliveries; and • political, economic and social instability. As the Company begins to expand the number of its theaters under joint revenue sharing arrangements in international markets, the Company’s revenues from its international operations will become increasingly dependent on the box office performance of its films. The Company may be unable to select films which will be successful in international markets. Also, conflicts in international release schedules may make it difficult to release every IMAX film in certain markets. Finally, box office reporting in certain countries may be less accurate and therefore less reliable than in the United States and Canada. The Company faces risks in connection with the continued expansion of its business in Greater China and other parts of Asia. The first IMAX theater system in a theater in Greater China was installed in December 2001. As at December 31, 2010, the Company had 40 theaters operating in Greater China with an additional 56 theaters in backlog that are scheduled to be installed in Greater China by 2015, and the Company plans to further expand its business in the Greater China region. However, the geopolitical instability of the region comprising Greater China, North Korea and South Korea could result in economic embargoes, disruptions in shipping or even military hostilities, which could interfere with both the fulfillment of the Company’s existing contracts and its pursuit of additional contracts in Greater China. Also, if the Company is unable to navigate Greater China’s heavily-regulated film and cinema business, the Company’s growth prospects in Greater China may be hampered. The Company’s theater system revenue can vary significantly from its cash flows under theater system sales or lease agreements. The Company’s theater systems revenue can vary significantly from the associated cash flows. The Company generally provides financing to customers for theater systems on a long-term basis through long-term leases or notes receivables. The terms of leases or notes receivable are typically 10 to 20 years. The Company’s sale and lease-type agreements typically provide for three major sources of cash flow related to theater systems: • initial fees, which are paid in installments generally commencing upon the signing of the agreement until installation of the theater systems; • ongoing fees, which are paid monthly after all theater systems have been installed and are generally equal to the greater of a fixed minimum amount per annum and a percentage of box-office receipts; and 19 Table of Contents • ongoing annual maintenance and extended warranty fees, which are generally payable commencing in the second year of theater operations. Initial fees generally make up a majority of cash received for a theater arrangement. For sales and sales-type leases, the revenue recorded is generally equal to the sum of initial fees and the present value of minimum ongoing fees due under the agreement. Cash received from initial fees in advance of meeting the revenue recognition criteria for the theater systems is recorded as deferred revenue. Contingent fees are recognized as they are reported by the theaters after annual minimum fixed fees are exceeded. Leases that do not transfer substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership to the customer are classified as operating leases. For these leases, initial fees and minimum fixed ongoing fees are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent fees are recognized as they are reported by the theaters after annual minimum fixed fees are exceeded. As a result of the above, the revenue set forth in the Company’s financial statements does not necessarily correlate with the Company’s cash flow or cash position. Revenues include the present value of future contracted cash payments and there is no guarantee that the Company will receive such payments under its lease and sale agreements if its customers default on their payment obligations. The Company’s operating results and cash flow can vary substantially from quarter to quarter and could increase the volatility of its share price. The Company’s operating results and cash flow can fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. In particular, fluctuations in theater system installations can materially affect operating results. Factors that have affected the Company’s operating results and cash flow in the past, and are likely to affect its operating results and cash flow in the future, include, among other things: • the timing of signing and installation of new theater systems; • the demand for, and acceptance of, its products and services; • the recognition of revenue of sales and sales-type leases; • the classification of leases as sales-type versus operating leases; • the timing and commercial success of films produced and distributed by the Company and others; • the volume of orders received and that can be filled in the quarter; • the level of its sales backlog; • the signing of film distribution agreements; • the financial performance of IMAX theaters operated by the Company’s customers and by the Company; • financial difficulties faced by customers, particularly customers in the commercial exhibition industry; • the magnitude and timing of spending in relation to the Company’s research and development efforts; and • the number and timing of joint revenue sharing arrangement installations, related capital expenditures and timing of related cash receipts. Most of the Company’s operating expenses are fixed in the short term. The Company may be unable to rapidly adjust its spending to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall, which would harm quarterly operating results, although the results of any quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of its results for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year. The Company’s revenues from existing customers are derived in part from financial reporting provided by its customers, which may be inaccurate or incomplete, resulting in lost or delayed revenues. 20 Table of Contents The Company’s revenue under its joint revenue sharing arrangements, a portion of the Company’s payments under lease or sales arrangements and its film license fees are based upon financial reporting provided by its customers. If such reporting is inaccurate, incomplete or withheld, the Company’s ability to receive the appropriate payments in a timely fashion that are due to it may be impaired. The Company’s contractual ability to audit IMAX theaters may not rectify payments lost or delayed as a result of customers not fulfilling their contractual obligations with respect to financial reporting. The Company’s stock price has historically been volatile and declines in market price, including as a result a market downturn, may negatively affect its ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business and retain employees. The Company’s publicly traded shares have in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could reduce the market price of its common stock, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. A decline in the capital markets generally, or an adjustment in the market price or trading volumes of the Company’s publicly traded securities, may negatively affect its ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business or retain employees. These factors, as well as general economic and geopolitical conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities. The credit agreement governing the Company’s senior secured credit facility contains significant restrictions that limit its operating and financial flexibility. The credit agreement governing the Company’s senior secured credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions; • repurchase stock; • make certain investments; • transfer or sell assets; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell stock of subsidiaries; • create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; and • merge, consolidate, amalgamate or sell all or substantially all of its assets to another person. These restrictive covenants impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company that limit the Company’s ability to engage in acts that may be in the Company’s long-term best interests. The Company may experience adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of its expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars. The Company also generates revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen. While the Company periodically enters into forward contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. and the Canadian dollar, the Company may not be successful in reducing its exposure to these fluctuations. The use of derivative contracts is intended to mitigate or reduce transactional level volatility in the results of foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate volatility. 21 Table of Contents The Company is subject to impairment losses on its film assets. The Company amortizes its film assets, including IMAX DMR costs capitalized using the individual film forecast method, whereby the costs of film assets are amortized and participation costs are accrued for each film in the ratio of revenues earned in the current period to management’s estimate of total revenues ultimately expected to be received for that title. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its estimates of ultimate revenues on a title-by-title basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization of the film assets and write-downs or impairments of film assets. Results of operations in future years include the amortization of the Company’s film assets and may be significantly affected by periodic adjustments in amortization rates. The Company is subject to impairment losses on its inventories. The Company records provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based upon current estimates of future events and conditions, including the anticipated installation dates for the current backlog of theater system contracts, technological developments, signings in negotiation and anticipated market acceptance of the Company’s current and pending theater systems. Since the Company introduced a proprietary digitally-based IMAX projection system, increased customer acceptance and preference for the Company’s digital projection system may subject existing film-based inventories to further write-downs (resulting in lower margins) as these theater systems become less desirable in the future. If the Company’s goodwill or long lived assets become impaired the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”), the Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment test is required. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances include (but are not limited to) a decline in stock price and market capitalization, declines in future cash flows, and slower growth rates in the Company’s industry. The Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or long lived assets is determined. Changes in accounting and changes in management’s estimates may affect the Company’s reported earnings and operating income. U.S. GAAP and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of the Company’s business, such as revenue recognition, film accounting, accounting for pensions, accounting for income taxes, and treatment of goodwill or long lived assets, are highly complex and involve many subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, management’s estimates, or changes in the Company’s products or business could significantly change its reported future earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. The Company relies on its key personnel, and the loss of one or more of those personnel could harm its ability to carry out its business strategy. The Company’s operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance and continued service of its senior management team. The Company may not find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services are no longer available. The loss of the services of one or more members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect its ability to effectively pursue its business strategy. Because the Company is incorporated in Canada, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to enforce against the Company liabilities based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. The Company is incorporated under the federal laws of Canada, some of its directors and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of its assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. plaintiffs to effect service within the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize against them or the Company in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability under the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to bring an original action outside of the United States against the Company to enforce liabilities based solely on U.S. federal securities laws. 22 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S PRIOR RESTATEMENTS AND RELATED MATTERS The Company is subject to ongoing informal inquiries and a formal investigation by regulatory authorities in the U.S. and Canada, and it cannot predict the timing of developments and outcomes in these matters. The Company is the subject of a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and an informal inquiry by the Ontario Securities Commission (the “OSC”) which relate to the Company’s accounting policies and related matters. The Company cannot predict when the investigation and inquiry will be completed or the further timing of any other developments in connection with the inquiries. The Company also cannot predict their results or outcomes. Expenses incurred in connection with these informal inquiries (which include substantial fees for lawyers and other professional advisors) continue to adversely affect the Company’s cash position and profitability. The Company may also have potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who could, at a future date, be parties to such inquiries. The formal investigation and the informal inquiry may adversely affect the course of the pending litigation against the Company. The Company is currently defending a consolidated class-action lawsuit in the U.S. and a class-action lawsuit in Ontario (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings). Negative developments or outcomes in the formal investigation or the informal inquiries could have an adverse effect on the Company’s defense of lawsuits. Also, the SEC and/or OSC could impose sanctions and/or fines on the Company in connection with the aforementioned investigation and inquiry. Finally, this investigation and inquiry could divert the attention of the Company’s management and other personnel for significant periods of time. The Company is subject to lawsuits that could divert its resources and result in the payment of significant damages and other remedies. The Company’s industry is characterized by frequent claims and related litigation regarding breach of contract and related issues. The Company is subject to a number of legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of its business. In addition, the Company is engaged as a defendant in several class action lawsuits filed by certain shareholders of the Company. The Company cannot assure that it will succeed in defending any claims, that judgments will not be entered against it with respect to any litigation or that reserves the Company may set aside will be adequate to cover any such judgments. If any of these actions or proceedings against the Company is successful, it may be subject to significant damages awards. In addition, the Company is the plaintiff in a number of lawsuits in which it seeks the recovery of substantial payments. The Company is incurring legal fees in prosecuting and defending its lawsuits, and it may not ultimately prevail in such lawsuits or be able to collect on such judgments if it does. Although the Company’s directors and officers liability insurance provides coverage for the class-action, the defense of these claims (as with the defense or prosecution of all of the Company’s litigation) could divert the attention of the Company’s management and other personnel for significant periods of time. The Company has been the subject of anti-trust complaints and investigations in the past and may be sued or investigated on similar grounds in the future. The outcome of informal inquiries and a formal investigation by regulatory authorities in the U.S. and Canada may affect the Company’s business and the market price of its publicly traded common shares. The Company has been the subject of continuing negative publicity in part as a result of the ongoing SEC investigation and OSC inquiry and its prior delay in filing financial statements and restatements of prior results. Continuing negative publicity could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 