Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We expect to continue to operate at a loss, we may not be able to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities, and we may never achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1990, including net losses of $274.3 million in 2006, $228.0 million in 2005 and $155.1 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,086.9 million. The process of developing and commercializing our products requires significant research and development work, preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approvals, significant marketing and sales efforts, and manufacturing capabilities. These activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, require significant investments and are expected to continue to result in significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. To date, the revenues we have recognized relating to ACEON® (perindopril erbumine) Tablets, which we are no longer promoting, and to Ranexa® (ranolazine extended-release tablets) have been limited, and have not been sufficient for us to achieve profitability or fund our operations, including our research, development and commercialization activities relating to Ranexa and our product candidates. The revenues that we expect to recognize for the foreseeable future relating to Ranexa may not be sufficient for us to achieve or sustain profitability or maintain operations at our current levels or at all. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. As we transition from a research and development-focused company to a company with commercial operations and revenues, we expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate. Our expenses, including payments owed by us under licensing, collaborative or manufacturing arrangements, are highly variable and may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. Our product revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate due to many factors, many of which we cannot control. For example, factors affecting our revenues presently or in the future include: • the timing and success of product launches by us and our collaborative partners, including our launch of Ranexa in the United States in March 2006; • the level of demand for our products, including physician prescribing patterns; • wholesaler buying patterns, product returns and contract terms; • reimbursement rates or policies; • the results of our clinical studies, including our Metabolic Efficiency with Ranolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes, or MERLIN TIMI-36, clinical trial of Ranexa; • the length of time it takes for an approved product to achieve market acceptance, if at all; • rebates, discounts and administrative fees on sales of our approved products that we provide to customers and other third parties; • the extent to which patients fill prescriptions written by their doctors for our approved products, the dosages prescribed, and the amount of co-payments patients are required to make to fill their prescriptions; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, our product promotional materials and programs; • government regulations or regulatory actions, such as product recalls; • increased competition from new or existing products or therapies, including lower-priced generic products and alternatives to drug treatment such as interventional medicine; 19 Table of Contents • changes in our contract manufacturing activity, including the availability or lack of commercial supplies of products and samples for promotion and distribution; • timing of non-recurring license fees and the achievement of milestones under new and existing license and collaborative agreements; and • our product marketing, promotion, distribution, sales and pricing strategies and programs, including product discounts and rebates extended to customers. Inventory levels of Ranexa held by wholesalers can also cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Although we attempt to monitor wholesaler inventory of our products, we rely upon information provided by third parties to quantify the inventory levels maintained by wholesalers. In addition, we and the wholesalers may not be effective in matching inventory levels to end-user demand. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels may result in inadequate or excessive inventory production, product supply in distribution channels, product availability at the retail level, and unexpected increases or decreases in orders from our major customers. Any of these events may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below our expectations. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our securities may decline significantly. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. We will need substantial additional capital in the future. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we may be unable to commercialize our products or continue our research and development activities or other operations at current levels. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $325.2 million, compared to $460.2 million at December 31, 2005. We expect that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to fund our operations at our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities for at least 12 months. Our estimates of future capital use are uncertain, and changes in our commercialization plans, partnering activities, regulatory requirements and other developments may increase our rate of spending and decrease the period of time our available resources will fund our operations. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our net losses were $274.3 million, $228.0 million and $155.1 million, respectively. We currently expect that our total costs and expenses, excluding cost of sales, for 2007 will be approximately $275.0 million to $285.0 million, compared to $312.5 million in 2006. Changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. We do not expect to generate sufficient revenues through our marketing and sales of Ranexa in the near term to achieve profitability or to fully fund our operations, including our research, development and commercialization activities relating to Ranexa and our product candidates. We will require substantial additional funding in the form of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and/or licensing arrangements in order to continue our research, development and commercialization activities. The amount of additional funding that we will require depends on many factors, including, without limitation: • the amount of revenue that we are able to obtain from approved products, and the time and costs required to achieve those revenues; • the timing, scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, especially our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa, for which we currently expect data late in the first quarter of 2007 (if the study is successful, we could not incorporate data from the study into FDA-approved product labeling and commence promotion based on that revised labeling, if any, until 2008 at the earliest); • the costs of commercializing our products, including marketing, promotional and sales costs, product pricing, and discounts, rebates and product return rights extended to customers; 20 Table of Contents • the costs of manufacturing or obtaining preclinical, clinical and commercial materials; • the size and complexity of our programs; • the time and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborative partnerships, such as our arrangement with Astellas US LLC; • competing technological and market developments; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patents; and • progress in our research and development programs. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In April 2006, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., or Azimuth, which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the purchase agreement, Azimuth is committed to purchase up to $200.0 million of our common stock, or 9,010,404 shares, whichever occurs first, at a discount of 3.8% to 5.8%, to be determined based on our market capitalization at the start of each sale period. The term of the purchase agreement is 36 months. Upon each sale of our common stock to Azimuth under the purchase agreement, we have also agreed to pay Reedland Capital Partners a placement fee equal to one fifth of one percent of the aggregate dollar amount of common stock purchased by Azimuth. In 2006, Azimuth purchased an aggregate 2,744,118 shares for proceeds, net of issuance costs, of approximately $39.8 million under the purchase agreement. Azimuth is not required to purchase our common stock when the price of our common stock is below $10 per share. Assuming that all 6,266,286 shares remaining for sale under the purchase agreement were sold at the $13.96 closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2006, the maximum additional aggregate net proceeds that we could receive under the purchase agreement with Azimuth would be approximately $82.2 million. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may, among other things: • have to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and/or development programs; • have to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our commercialization activities; • lose rights under existing licenses; • have to relinquish more of, or all of, our rights to product candidates on less favorable terms than we would otherwise seek; and • be unable to operate as a going concern. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, including sales of common stock under our equity line of credit, our existing stockholders will experience dilution. The results of our MERLIN TIMI-36 study may differ substantially from those obtained in earlier studies of Ranexa. In addition, while we have negotiated a special protocol assessment agreement with the FDA relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study of Ranexa, this agreement does not guarantee any particular regulatory outcome from regulatory review of the study or the product, including any changes to product labeling or approvals. Our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial is a large clinical study of Ranexa, with approximately 6,500 patients enrolled. The trial was completed in September 2006 when more than 730 events (as defined by the composite 21 Table of Contents study endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction or severe recurrent ischemia), as well as 310 deaths from any cause, were observed in the study population. We presently expect preliminary results from the trial will become available late in the first quarter of 2007. The data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study may differ substantially from those obtained in earlier clinical trials of Ranexa. For example, although our previous Phase 3 trials of Ranexa had positive results, our MERLIN TIMI-36 study of Ranexa is in a different patient population (of patients with acute coronary syndromes) with different entry criteria and for a different potential use, and involves the use of an intravenous formulation of ranolazine that has not been approved by the FDA. In addition, even though the MERLIN TIMI-36 study is powered at over 90% for the primary efficacy endpoint, this does not necessarily mean that there is a 90% probability that the study will meet the primary efficacy endpoint. The calculation of the statistical power of a study is based on several assumptions, any one of which may be incorrect. Power is the probability of obtaining a statistically significant difference between the study drug and the placebo control if the study drug really is different from control by a particular assumed amount. Therefore, if a study has a power of 90% and all of the assumptions are correct, including the assumed amount of difference between the study drug and the placebo control, then the probability that the study will show a statistically significant difference between the study drug and the placebo control is 90%. However, if one or more of the calculation’s assumptions is not correct, then the probability that the study will show a statistically significant difference between the study drug and the control may be greater or less than 90%. In the calculation of the MERLIN TIMI-36 study power for the primary efficacy endpoint, it was assumed that in the entire population of acute coronary syndrome patients there would be a 20% difference between Ranexa and placebo (the control in the study) in the risk of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction or recurrent ischemia occurring after an acute coronary syndrome event. However, since Ranexa has never been studied in this patient population, we cannot assure you that the assumption of a 20% difference between Ranexa and placebo is correct. Therefore, the probability that the study will meet the primary efficacy endpoint may be less than 90%. The MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study has a complicated design and there are many potential outcomes from this study, ranging from strongly or weakly positive to strongly or weakly negative. The study results may be ambiguous and difficult to interpret. These factors and the inherent variability of clinical trial results mean that there can be no assurance that we will obtain positive results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study. In July 2004, we announced that we reached written agreement with the FDA on a special protocol assessment, or SPA, agreement for the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa. The FDA’s SPA process is used to create a written agreement between the sponsoring company and the FDA regarding clinical trial design, clinical endpoints, study conduct, data analyses and other clinical trial matters. It is intended to provide assurance that if pre-specified trial results are achieved, they may serve as the primary basis for an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application. However, an SPA agreement is not a guarantee of a product approval or of any labeling claims about the product. In particular, an SPA agreement is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns unrecognized at the time the SPA agreement was entered into become evident, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise, or if the sponsor company fails to comply with the agreed upon trial protocols. Even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be changed later. The FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of any SPA agreement, as well as in interpreting the data and results from any study that is the subject of an SPA agreement. Under our SPA agreement with the FDA relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study, the FDA agreed that this study could support potential approval of Ranexa as first-line therapy for patients suffering from chronic angina if treatment with Ranexa is not associated with an adverse trend in death and arrhythmia compared to placebo, even if statistical significance for the primary efficacy endpoint in the study (which does not relate to chronic angina) is not achieved. However, the term “no adverse trend in death and arrhythmia” is not defined in the SPA agreement, we have not discussed with the FDA the potential meaning(s) of the phrase, and we do not know how the agency will interpret this aspect of the SPA agreement in the context of the data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 study (assuming that we submit those data and results to the agency for review in an 22 Table of Contents approval application). If we submit an approval application to the FDA for review, we expect that the FDA will review all the safety data and results from the study (including those relating to death and arrhythmia), and will exercise its broad regulatory discretion in interpreting these data and results and the terms of the SPA agreement, in determining whether the data and results demonstrate that Ranexa is or is not associated with an adverse trend in death and arrhythmia, and in determining whether to approve the product for first-line therapy for chronic angina patients, and what labeling changes to allow, if any. As a result, there is significant uncertainty as to whether the MERLIN TIMI-36 study would support a potential approval of Ranexa as first-line therapy for patients suffering from chronic angina and what labeling changes would result. The SPA agreement also requires that we successfully complete a clinical evaluation of higher doses of Ranexa before any potential approval of Ranexa as first-line therapy for patients suffering from chronic angina. We have completed the clinical evaluation of higher doses of Ranexa, and believe that the data and results from this separate study will satisfy this additional SPA requirement. However, we have not submitted these data and results to the FDA for review in an approval application and we thus do not know if the FDA will agree that this aspect of the SPA agreement has been satisfied. Under our SPA agreement with the FDA relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study, this study could also result in approval of Ranexa for the treatment and long-term prevention of acute coronary syndromes, if the study meets its primary efficacy endpoint. Typically, the FDA requires positive results from at least two Phase 3 studies to support approval for a new indication. While the FDA agreed in our SPA agreement that positive data and results from just one Phase 3 study of patients with acute coronary syndromes (the MERLIN TIMI-36 study) could result in approval of Ranexa for the treatment and long-term prevention of this condition, the agency retains significant discretion in interpreting these terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 study. As a result, we have no assurance that the MERLIN TIMI-36 data and results will allow us to expand or otherwise improve the approved product labeling for Ranexa. In connection with our SPA agreement relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study, we expect that the FDA will review our compliance with the protocol under our SPA agreement. We also expect that the FDA will conduct inspections of some of the approximately 450 MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical sites, most of which are located in 16 foreign countries. We do not know whether the clinical sites will pass such FDA inspections, and negative inspection results could significantly delay or prevent any potential regulatory approval or expansion of the product labeling for Ranexa. We do not know how the FDA will interpret the commitments under our SPA agreement relating to the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study (or the related clinical evaluation of higher doses of Ranexa) as these commitments relate to the potential for first-line use in chronic angina and the potential for use in acute coronary syndromes, how the FDA will interpret the data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study (or the separate clinical evaluation of higher doses of Ranexa), or whether Ranexa will receive any additional regulatory approvals or any expanded or otherwise improved product labeling as a result of these clinical study(ies) or this SPA agreement. In particular, significant uncertainty remains regarding the potential impact on the product of any data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial. Even if the study results are positive and the FDA decides to approve expanded product labeling, such positive results could not be incorporated into any FDA-approved product labeling for Ranexa and we could not commence promotion based on that revised labeling until 2008 at the earliest. In any event, the additional safety data we receive from the MERLIN TIMI-36 study, whether positive or negative, will require us to modify the product’s labeling, even if we do not submit any approval applications seeking other labeling changes based on the study. If the MERLIN TIMI-36 study has negative or ambiguous results, our continued ability to commercialize Ranexa could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, and we may become subject to product liability and other claims against us. Negative or ambiguous data and results from this study could cause the FDA to further limit or restrict the approved labeling for Ranexa, or even require withdrawal of the product from the market. Any of these events would adversely affect the market acceptance of Ranexa, our only approved product, and also adversely affect our cash position, results of operations and stock price. 23 Table of Contents All of our products in development require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delay in the regulatory review or approval of any of our products in development will harm our business. All of our products in development require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delays in the regulatory review or approval of our products in development would delay market launch, increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Furthermore, this approval process is extremely complex, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to maintain our proposed schedules for the submission of any new drug application, supplemental new drug application or equivalent foreign application seeking approval for any of our product candidates or any new uses or other changes to approved product labeling or manufacturing. If we submit any such application to the FDA, the FDA must first decide whether to either accept or reject the submission for filing, and if we submit any such application to European regulatory authorities, they must first decide whether to validate it for further review, so we cannot be certain that any of these submissions will be reviewed. If they are reviewed, we cannot be certain that we will be able to respond to any regulatory requests during the review period in a timely manner without delaying potential regulatory action. We also cannot be certain that any of our products or proposed product changes, such as labeling changes, will be approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Delays in approvals or rejections of marketing applications in the United States or foreign markets may be based upon many factors, including regulatory requests for additional analyses, reports, clinical inspections, clinical and/or preclinical data and/or studies, questions regarding data or results, unfavorable review by advisory committees, changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and/or the emergence of new information regarding our products or other products. For example, in 2005 we withdrew our marketing authorization application for ranolazine filed with the European Medicines Agency, because the regulatory authority requested additional clinical pharmacokinetic data regarding the product prior to approval. In December 2006, we announced that we had submitted a new marketing authorization application seeking approval of ranolazine for the treatment of chronic angina with the European Medicines Agency. This new application includes additional data and results from studies conducted after March 2004. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to different interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory review or approval of any of our products. For example, some drugs that prolong the QT interval, which is a measurement of specific electrical activity in the heart as captured on an electrocardiogram, carry an increased risk of serious cardiac rhythm disturbances that can cause a type of fatal arrhythmia known as torsades de pointes, while other drugs that prolong the QT interval do not carry an increased risk of this fatal arrhythmia. Ranexa causes small but statistically significant mean increases in the QT interval, as observed in clinical trials of Ranexa. QT interval measurements are not precise and there are different methods of calculating the corrected QTc interval, which is the QT interval as adjusted for heart rate. This uncertainty in the measurement and calculation of the QT and QTc intervals can contribute to different interpretations of these data. The clinical significance of the changes in QTc interval observed in clinical trials of Ranexa remains unclear, and other clinical and preclinical data do not suggest that Ranexa significantly pre-disposes patients to this fatal arrhythmia. Regulatory authorities may interpret the Ranexa data differently, which could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals of Ranexa. For example, when acting on the original new drug application for Ranexa in October 2003, the FDA did not approve the product and indicated that additional clinical information would be needed prior to approval, in part because of the FDA’s safety concerns. In January 2006, the FDA approved Ranexa for use in chronic angina, with product labeling which states that because of the potential safety risk of QT prolongation caused by Ranexa, the product should be reserved for use in chronic angina patients who have not achieved an adequate response with other antianginal drugs, and should be used in combination with other common antianginal treatments, specifically amlodipine, beta-blockers or nitrates. Foreign regulatory authorities may have similar or other concerns which would delay or prevent the approval of Ranexa or any of our other product candidates outside the United States. 24 Table of Contents Similarly, as a routine part of the evaluation of any potential drug, clinical studies are generally conducted to assess the potential for drug-drug interactions that could impact potential product safety. While we believe that the interactions between Ranexa and other drugs have been well characterized as part of our clinical development program, the data are subject to regulatory interpretation and an unfavorable interpretation by regulatory authorities could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals of Ranexa. Furthermore, regulatory attitudes towards the data and results required to demonstrate safety and efficacy can change over time and can be affected by many factors, such as the emergence of new information (including on other products), changing policies and agency funding, staffing and leadership. We cannot be sure whether current or future changes in the regulatory environment will be favorable or unfavorable to our business prospects. For example, we were informed by the FDA in 2006 that the agency has transferred responsibility for our regadenoson program to a review division at the FDA that has not previously handled the program. The development program for regadenoson is at a late stage, with two Phase 3 studies successfully completed and a potential new drug application filing in mid-2007. The FDA transfer of review responsibility for the program could disrupt ongoing and anticipated communications with the agency. We do not know if the new review division will adhere to key agreements on the development program that were discussed and agreed to previously with the prior review division (and with whom we did not negotiate any SPA agreement for this program), such as the Phase 3 study design, which is a novel approach to the evaluation of a pharmacological stress agent. As a result of this transfer, our ability to submit a new drug application, if any, and/or obtain potential product approval from the FDA for regadenoson could be negatively affected. The fact that the design of our two successful Phase 3 studies of regadenoson is novel may also delay or prevent any potential approval of a new drug application for regadenoson. The two identical Phase 3 studies are non-inferiority studies, using a complex comparison based on multiple readings of reperfusion imaging scans by various blinded human scan readers. This is an unusual study design and there is an inherently high degree of variability in the reading of reperfusion imaging scans (meaning that a single scan reviewed by two different readers, or even a single scan reviewed twice by the same reader, can produce different results). These studies also required blinded human readers to review and interpret electrocardiographic data, a process that is also subject to inherent interpretative variability. Even though both Phase 3 studies of regadenoson had positive results, there can be no assurance that the data will be sufficient to obtain marketing approval for regadenoson in the United States or abroad. In addition, the environment in which our regulatory submissions may be reviewed changes over time. For example, average review times at the FDA for marketing approval applications can fluctuate substantially, and we cannot predict the review time for any of our submissions with any regulatory authorities. Review times also can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and funding levels and statutory, regulatory and policy changes. We intend to file applications for regulatory approval of our products in various foreign jurisdictions from time to time in the future. However, we have not received any regulatory approvals in any foreign jurisdiction for the commercial sale of any of our products. There are potentially important substantive differences in reviews of approval applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions such as Europe. For example, preclinical and/or clinical trials and data that are accepted by the FDA in support of a new drug application may not be accepted by foreign regulatory authorities, and trials and data acceptable to foreign regulatory authorities in support of a product approval may not be accepted by the FDA. In addition, approval of a product in one jurisdiction is no guarantee that any other regulatory authorities will also approve it. Our approved products may not achieve market acceptance or generate revenues. If Ranexa fails to achieve market acceptance, our product sales and our ability to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities, as well as our ability to become profitable in the future, will be adversely affected. Many factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of Ranexa in the United States, including: • our product marketing, promotion, distribution sales and pricing strategies and programs; 25 Table of Contents • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of competing products or therapies; • the success of ongoing development programs relating to our products, especially our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa; • new data or adverse event information relating to the product or any similar products and any resulting regulatory action, especially our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa and any regulatory action resulting therefrom; • product labeling claims; • the extent to which physicians do or do not prescribe a product to the full extent encompassed by product labeling; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, our product promotional materials and programs; • the perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of alternative or competing products or therapies; • patient and physician satisfaction with the product; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • the size of the market for the product; • any publicity concerning the product or similar products; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of alternative or competing treatments, including lower-priced generic products; • the availability and level of third-party reimbursement for the product; • the ability to gain formulary acceptance and favorable formulary positioning, without prior authorizations or step-edits, for our approved products on government and managed care formularies and the discounts and rebates offered in return; • our ability to satisfy post-marketing safety surveillance responsibilities and safety reporting requirements; • whether regulatory authorities impose risk management programs on the product, which can vary widely in scope, complexity, and impact on market acceptance of a product, and can include education and outreach programs, controls on the prescribing, dispensing or use of the product, and/or restricted access systems; • the continued availability of third parties to manufacture and distribute the product and product samples on acceptable terms, and the continued ability to manufacture commercial-scale quantities of the product successfully and on a timely basis; • the outcome of patent or product liability litigation, if any, related to the product; 26 Table of Contents • regulatory developments relating to the development, manufacture, commercialization or use of the product; and • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, we believe that the approved product labeling for Ranexa has had and will continue to have a direct impact on our marketing, promotional and sales programs for this product, and could adversely affect market acceptance of this product. In addition, we believe that physician prescribing patterns are substantially affected by the experience of patients for whom they prescribe a product, particularly a new product such as Ranexa. For example, the approved product labeling for Ranexa contains contraindications and warnings regarding a potential safety risk of QT prolongation and a type of fatal arrhythmia, among other potential risks. If physicians in the United States react negatively to the product because of how they perceive the approved product labeling, or if patients for whom they prescribe Ranexa do poorly on the drug, physicians may decide that the benefit and risk of the product do not favor wider or any usage, and may reserve the use of the product for only a small group of patients with chronic angina, or not use the product at all, resulting in lower product acceptance and lower product revenues. Regulatory authorities approve product labeling with reference to the preclinical and clinical data that form the basis of the product approval, and as a result the scope of approved labeling is generally impacted by the available data. The approved product labeling for Ranexa states that because Ranexa prolongs the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner, the product should be reserved for use in chronic angina patients who have not achieved an adequate response with other antianginal drugs, and should be used in combination with other common antianginal treatments, specifically amlodipine, beta-blockers or nitrates. As a result, Ranexa is approved for only a portion of the overall angina patient population in the United States. Any approval of Ranexa for broader use with angina patients will require, among other things, successful completion of our large MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial, from which preliminary results are expected late in the first quarter of 2007. If the study is successful, we could not incorporate data from the study into FDA-approved product labeling and commence promotion based on that revised labeling, if any, until 2008 at the earliest. We cannot assure you that the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial will succeed or allow us to expand the approved labeling for Ranexa. If the MERLIN TIMI-36 study has negative or ambiguous results, our continued ability to commercialize Ranexa could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, and we may become subject to product liability and other claims against us. In addition to approving product labeling, the FDA typically reviews core promotional materials for our products. We obtained the FDA’s review of our key promotional materials in connection with the 2006 launch of Ranexa, and we must submit all promotional materials to the FDA at the time of first use. If the FDA raises concerns regarding our proposed or actual promotional materials, we may be required to modify or discontinue using them and provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners. We do not know whether our promotional materials will allow us to effectively promote Ranexa with healthcare practitioners and managed care audiences. For example, the approved product labeling states that the mechanism of action of Ranexa is unknown, which may make it difficult for us to address potential questions and concerns regarding the product such as safety concerns. We may also be hampered in our promotional efforts by a lack of familiarity with our company and our products among healthcare practitioners in the United States. Relatively few U.S. physicians served as clinical investigators in the clinical studies of Ranexa; as a result, only a limited number of U.S. healthcare practitioners are familiar with using Ranexa, even in a clinical trial setting. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries, and the market for cardiovascular drugs in particular, are intensely competitive. Ranexa and any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval will compete with well-established, proprietary and generic cardiovascular therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years and are widely used and accepted by health care practitioners. For example, 27 Table of Contents ACEON® (perindopril erbumine) Tablets, which we co-promoted until October 2006, is a member of the highly competitive class of drugs known as ACE inhibitors. Although the FDA approved ACEON® for the treatment of patients with stable coronary artery disease to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality or nonfatal myocardial infarction in August 2005, our marketing and promotional efforts did not materially increase overall market acceptance beyond minimal product sales levels. As a result, in October 2006, we terminated our co-promotion agreement for ACEON®. In addition to direct competition, our products will also have to compete against the promotional efforts for other products in order to be noticed by physicians and patients. The level of promotional effort in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical markets has increased substantially. Market acceptance of our products will be affected by the level of promotional effort that we are able to provide. The level of our promotional efforts will depend in part on our ability to train, deploy and retain an effective sales and marketing organization, as well as our ability to secure additional financing. We cannot assure you that the level of promotional effort that we will be able to provide for our products or the levels of additional financing we are able to secure, if any, will be sufficient to obtain market acceptance of our products. The success of our company is largely dependent on the success of Ranexa, which we launched in the United States in March 2006. We launched Ranexa in the United States market in March 2006 and recognized revenues from sales of Ranexa for the first time in the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Although we co-promoted ACEON® in the United States until October 2006, Ranexa is now our only commercial product, and we expect that Ranexa will account for all of our product sales for the next several years unless we obtain rights to other approved products. In order for us to successfully commercialize Ranexa, our sales of Ranexa must increase significantly from current levels. We continue to spend significant amounts of capital in connection with the commercialization of Ranexa, and to invest significant amounts of capital in the development of Ranexa, especially through our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial, which is a large and costly outcomes study. Any future labeling expansion of Ranexa is dependent on a successful outcome of the MERLIN TIMI-36 trial, for which we expect preliminary results late in the first quarter of 2007. If the study is successful, we could not incorporate data from the study into FDA-approved product labeling and commence promotion based on that revised labeling, if any, until 2008 at the earliest. Even if our MERLIN TIMI-36 trial is successful, the data and results from the study may not be compelling enough to enable us to successfully promote the product and increase product sales. The MERLIN TIMI-36 study has a complicated design and the data and results may range from strongly or weakly positive to strongly or weakly negative, and may be ambiguous and difficult to interpret. If the MERLIN TIMI-36 study has negative or ambiguous results, our continued ability to commercialize Ranexa could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, and we may become subject to product liability and other claims against us. Our continued substantial investments in Ranexa are based in part on market forecasts, which are inherently uncertain and, in the case of Ranexa, are particularly uncertain due to the fact that Ranexa is a new and unproven product with a novel mechanism of action and is the first new drug therapy for chronic angina in the United States in over twenty years. If we fail to significantly increase our level of Ranexa sales, or if our MERLIN TIMI-36 trial is unsuccessful, our ability to generate product revenues, our ability to raise additional capital, and our ability to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities will all be materially impaired, and the price of our common stock will decline. As a result, the success of our company is largely dependent on the success of Ranexa, not our other product candidates. The commercialization of our products is substantially dependent on our ability to develop effective sales and marketing capabilities. Our successful commercialization of Ranexa in the United States will depend on our ability to establish and maintain an effective sales and marketing organization in the United States. We have hired, trained and deployed additional marketing personnel and a national cardiovascular specialty sales force of approximately 250 28 Table of Contents personnel, which began to promote ACEON® in 2005 and Ranexa in March 2006. Prior to our launches of these two products, we had never sold or marketed any products. In October 2006, we signed a letter agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals that, among other things, terminated our co-promotion agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals relating to ACEON®, effective as of November 1, 2006, and we ceased all commercial activities relating to ACEON®. We may increase or decrease the size of our sales force in the future, depending on many factors, including the effectiveness of the sales force, the level of market acceptance of Ranexa, and the results of our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa, for which we expect preliminary results late in the first quarter of 2007. Developing and implementing key marketing messages and programs, as well as deploying, retaining and managing a national sales force and additional personnel, is very expensive, complex and time-consuming. We do not know if our marketing strategies and programs will be effective. We also do not know if our sales force is sufficient in size, scope or effectiveness to compete successfully in the marketplace and gain acceptance for Ranexa. Among other factors, we may not be able to gain sufficient access to healthcare practitioners, which would have a negative effect on our ability to promote Ranexa and gain market acceptance. Even if we gain access to healthcare practitioners, we may not be able to change prescribing patterns in favor of Ranexa. For example, our marketing and sales efforts relating to ACEON® in the United States prior to our termination of our co-promotion agreement for ACEON® did not produce a significant increase in prescribing patterns relating to that product. Even after a product has been approved for commercial sale, if we or others identify previously known or unknown side effects or manufacturing problems occur, approval could be withdrawn or sales of the product could be significantly reduced. Once a product is approved for marketing, adverse effects whether known or new and unknown must be reported to regulatory authorities on an ongoing basis, and usage of any drug product in the general population is less well-controlled than in the pre-approval setting of carefully monitored clinical trial testing. In addition, once a product is approved, others are free to generate new data regarding the product, which they may publish in the scientific literature or otherwise publicize, without any control by the drug manufacturer. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects for Ranexa or any products perceived to be similar to Ranexa, or if any already known side effect becomes a more serious or frequent concern than was previously thought on the basis of new data or other developments, or if manufacturing problems occur, then in any of those circumstances: • sales of the product may decrease significantly; • regulatory approval for the product may be restricted or withdrawn; • we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians and pharmacists; • reformulation of the product, additional preclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling of the product or changes to or re-approvals of manufacturing facilities may be required; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • investigations and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of Ranexa and increase our costs and expenses, and could mean that our ability to commercialize the product is seriously impaired or stopped altogether. 29 Table of Contents Unlike other treatments for angina currently being used in the United States, the approved labeling for Ranexa warns of the risk that because the product prolongs the QT interval, it may cause a type of fatal arrhythmia known to healthcare practitioners as torsades de pointes. This fatal arrhythmia occurs in the general population of patients with cardiovascular disease at a low rate of incidence (although the precise rate may be debatable), and can be triggered by a wide variety of factors including drugs, genetic predisposition and medical conditions (such as low blood potassium levels or slow heart rate) that are not uncommon among patients with cardiovascular disease. Now that Ranexa is approved in the United States, the product is being used in a wider population and in a less rigorously controlled fashion than in clinical studies of the product, including in patients with chronic angina who may be predisposed to the occurrence of torsades de pointes or other fatal arrhythmias. These patients are often receiving other medications for a variety of conditions. In this potential patient population for Ranexa, it is inevitable that some patients receiving Ranexa will die suddenly, that in some or even many of these cases there will not be sufficient information available to rule out Ranexa as a contributing factor or cause of mortality, and that required safety reporting from physicians or from us to regulatory authorities may link Ranexa to torsades de pointes, sudden death or other serious adverse effects. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners and/or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of Ranexa is associated with torsades de pointes, sudden death, or other serious adverse effects, any of which could mean that our ability to commercialize Ranexa could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, our SPA agreement with the FDA regarding our MERLIN TIMI-36 study could be negatively affected, and we may become subject to potentially significant product liability litigation and other claims against us. This would harm our business, increase our cash requirements and result in continued operating losses and a substantial decline in our stock price. We may be subject to product liability claims and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human drugs and other therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. The approved labeling for Ranexa includes warnings regarding QT prolongation and the risk of arrhythmias and sudden death and tumor promotion. We may be subject to product liability claims in the future, including if patients who have taken Ranexa die, experience arrhythmias, contract cancer, or suffer some other serious adverse effect. Any product liability claims could have a material negative effect on the market acceptance and sales of our products. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for clinical trials testing and only limited commercial product liability insurance. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to continue to develop or commercialize our products or any product candidates that may receive regulatory approval in the future. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to make substantial payments. This could adversely affect our cash position and results of operations and could increase the volatility of our stock price. If we are unable to compete successfully in our market, it will harm our business. There are many existing drug therapies approved for the treatment of the diseases targeted by our products, and we are also aware of companies that are developing new potential drug products that will compete in the same markets as our products. Ranexa competes with several well established classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the United States, including generic and/or branded beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long acting nitrates, and additional potential angina therapies may be under development. In addition, surgical treatments and interventions such as coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous coronary intervention can be another option for angina patients, and may be perceived by healthcare practitioners as preferred methods to treat the cardiovascular disease that underlies and causes angina. There are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents, and at least two potential A2A-adenosine receptor agonist compounds under development, that could compete with regadenoson, if approved. We are also aware of companies that are developing products that may compete with our other product 30 Table of Contents candidates and programs. There may also be potentially competitive products of which we are not aware. Many of these potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and sales resources. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier or obtaining approvals from regulatory authorities more rapidly or broadly than either we or our strategic partners are able to achieve. Potential competitors may also develop products that are safer, more effective or have other potential advantages compared to those under development or proposed to be developed by us and our strategic partners. In addition, research, development and commercialization efforts by others could render our technology or our products obsolete or non-competitive. Failure to obtain adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations could materially adversely affect our future business, market acceptance of our products, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to market and sell Ranexa and any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval in the future will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of Ranexa and those product candidates and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third party payers and governmental health administration authorities are increasingly attempting to limit and/or regulate the price of medical products and services, especially branded prescription drugs. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States will put additional pressure on product pricing and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales and revenues. For example, under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D, and the various entities providing such coverage have set up approved drug lists or formularies and are negotiating rebates and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers, which impacts drug access, patient copayments and product revenues, and may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices over time. The full impact of this new law on our business as it relates to Ranexa in the United States is not yet clear to us. However, these changes in Medicare reimbursement could have a negative effect on the revenue that we derive from sales of Ranexa, for example, when we provide rebates and other price concessions in order for Ranexa to be placed on approved drug lists or formularies. Any additional changes in the law, including potential changes to Medicare Part D, could also place pressure on product pricing and usage. Even if our products are deemed to be safe and effective by regulatory authorities, third party payers and governmental health administration authorities may direct patients to generic products or other lower-priced therapeutic alternatives, and there are an increasing number of such alternatives available, including numerous lower-priced generic products available to treat the conditions for which our products are approved. Many third-party payers establish a preference for selected products in a category and provide higher levels of formulary acceptance and coverage for preferred products and higher co-payments for non-preferred products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, such as Ranexa. As a result, we cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for Ranexa or how the product will be positioned relative to other antianginal products and therapies. In February 2006, we set the wholesale acquisition cost of Ranexa at a higher price than the cost of any other antianginal drug currently on the market in the United States. In 2007, we increased the wholesale acquisition cost of Ranexa to adjust for inflation. Our pricing for Ranexa may result in less favorable reimbursement and formulary positioning for the product with third party payers and under government programs including Medicare, and may result in more or higher barriers to patient access to the product such as higher co-payments and/or prior authorization requirements. If we fail to obtain favorable reimbursement or formulary positioning for Ranexa, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer these products, and patients may resist having to pay out-of-pocket for these products. We are offering discounts or rebates to some customers to attempt to contract for favorable formulary status, which will lower the amount of product revenues we receive. In addition, our product revenues are affected by 31 Table of Contents our pricing for the two approved dosages for Ranexa and by the dosages most commonly prescribed by physicians. To date, the lower-priced, lower dosage of Ranexa is the most commonly prescribed dosage, which impacts product revenues but may also support favorable formulary positioning by third party payers. These competing factors will affect the market acceptance of Ranexa in the United States as well as the amount of product revenues we will receive for the product. For sales of any of our products in Europe, if approved, we will be required to seek reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country basis. We cannot be certain that any products approved for marketing will be considered cost effective, that reimbursement will be available, or that allowed reimbursement will be adequate in these markets. In addition, in Europe, various government entities control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and often expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. As a result, reimbursement policies and pricing controls could adversely affect our or any strategic partners’ ability to sell our products on a profitable basis in Europe. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Our principal customers are a small number of wholesale drug distributors. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. Three large wholesale distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation, control a significant share of the market in the United States. Our ability to distribute our products, including Ranexa, to retail pharmacy chains and to recognize revenues on a timely basis will be substantially dependent on our ability to maintain commercially reasonable agreements with each of these wholesale distributors and the extent to which these distributors, over whom we have no control, comply with such agreements. The loss or bankruptcy of any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition and our ability to distribute our products. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may affect the use of our products. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing therapies. These organizations have in the past made recommendations about our products or products that compete with our products, such as the treatment guidelines of the American Heart Association. These sorts of recommendations or guidelines could result in decreased use of our products. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that any such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual violation of healthcare statutes such as fraud and abuse laws, and our corporate compliance programs can never guarantee that we are in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. Our commercialization efforts in the United States are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to pharmaceutical promotion and healthcare fraud and abuse, including the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, and federal and state anti-kickback, fraud and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to offer or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a drug. The federal government has published many regulations relating to the anti-kickback statutes, including numerous safe harbors or exemptions for certain arrangements. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. 32 Table of Contents Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products, and those of our strategic partners, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws and regulations. It may be difficult to determine whether or not our activities, or those of our strategic partners, comply with these complex legal requirements and regulations. Violations are punishable by significant criminal and/or civil fines and other penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion of the product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. If the government were to investigate or make allegations against us or any of our employees, or sanction or convict us or any of our employees, of violating any of these laws, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. Similarly, under our license and collaboration arrangement with respect to regadenoson, if Astellas becomes subject to investigation, allegation or sanction, our ability to continue to obtain revenues from its sale, if approved, could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether. Our activities and those of our strategic partners could be subject to challenge for many reasons, including the broad scope and complexity of these laws and regulations, the difficulties in interpreting and applying these legal requirements, and the high degree of prosecutorial resources and attention being devoted to the biopharmaceutical industry by law enforcement authorities. During the last few years, numerous biopharmaceutical companies have paid multi-million dollar fines and entered into burdensome settlement agreements for alleged violation of these requirements, and other companies are under active investigation. Although we have developed and implemented corporate and field compliance programs as part of our efforts to commercialize Ranexa, we cannot assure you that we or our employees, directors or agents were, are or will be in compliance with all laws and regulations or that we will not come under investigation, allegation or sanction. In addition, we are required to prepare and report product pricing-related information to federal and state governmental authorities, such as the Veterans Administration and under the Medicaid program. The calculations used to generate the pricing-related information are complex and require the exercise of judgment. If we fail to accurately and timely report product pricing-related information or to comply with any of these or any other laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including criminal and/or civil prosecution, substantial criminal and/or civil penalties, exclusion of the approved product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), costly litigation and restatement of our financial statements. In addition, our efforts to comply with this wide range of laws and regulations are, and will continue to be, time-consuming and expensive. The successful commercialization of our products is substantially dependent on the successful and timely performance of our strategic collaborative partners and other vendors, over whom we have little control. We are dependent on the performance of our key strategic collaborative partners for the successful commercialization of our products. Our key collaborative partnerships include the following: • Biogen Idec Inc. (formerly Biogen Inc.)—a 1997 license agreement under which we licensed rights to Biogen to develop and commercialize products produced based on our A1 adenosine receptor antagonist patents or technologies, which Biogen Idec has labeled its Adentri™ program; and • Astellas US LLC (formerly Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc.)—a 2000 collaboration and license agreement to develop and commercialize second generation pharmacologic cardiac stress agents, including regadenoson. The successful commercialization of our regadenoson program and of the Adentri™ program will each depend significantly on the efforts of our collaborative partners for each of these programs. For example, under our agreement with Astellas, Astellas is responsible for the commercial manufacture and distribution, marketing and sales of regadenoson in North America, if approved. Biogen Idec has sole responsibility for all worldwide development and commercialization of products from the Adentri™ program, if any. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that any of our strategic partners devote to these programs. Conflicting priorities may cause any of our strategic partners to deemphasize our programs or to 33 Table of Contents pursue competing technologies or product candidates. In addition, these arrangements are each complex, and disputes may arise between the parties, which could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of the products involved. If Astellas fails to successfully manufacture, market and sell regadenoson in North America, if approved, we would receive minimal or even no revenues under the arrangement. If Biogen Idec fails to successfully develop and commercialize any product from the Adentri™ program, we would receive no revenues under the arrangement. To the extent that we enter into additional co-promotion or other commercialization arrangements in the future, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of third parties over which we will have little control. Our successful commercialization of Ranexa will also depend on the performance of numerous third-party vendors over which we have little control. For example, we rely entirely on third-party vendors to manufacture and distribute Ranexa in the United States, to administer our physician sampling programs relating to Ranexa, and to perform some of our sales and marketing operations functions, such as our product call centers. As a result, our level of success in commercializing Ranexa depends significantly on the efforts of these third parties, as well as our strategic partners. If these third parties fail to perform as expected, our ability to market and promote Ranexa would be significantly compromised. We have no manufacturing facilities and depend on third parties to manufacture our products. We do not operate, and have no current plans to develop, any manufacturing facilities, and we currently lack the resources and capability to manufacture any of our products ourselves on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we are dependent on corporate partners, licensees, contract manufacturers and other third parties for the manufacturing of clinical and commercial scale quantities of all of our products, including Ranexa. For example, we have entered into several agreements with third party manufacturers relating to Ranexa, including for commercial-scale active pharmaceutical ingredient, bulk tablet manufacturing, packaging and supply of an important raw material component of the product. We currently rely on a single supplier at each step in the production cycle for Ranexa. In addition, under our agreement with Astellas relating to regadenoson, Astellas is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of regadenoson, if approved, and in turn is dependent on third parties for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the drug product. Our ability to commercialize Ranexa, and Astellas’ ability to commercialize regadenoson, if approved, is entirely dependent on these arrangements, and would be affected by any delays or difficulties in performance on the part of the contract manufacturers. For example, in the case of our Ranexa supply chain, because we rely on a single manufacturer at each step in the production cycle for the product, the failure of any manufacturers to supply product on a timely basis or at all, or to manufacture our product in compliance with product specifications or applicable quality or regulatory requirements, or to manufacture product or samples in volumes sufficient to meet market demand, would adversely affect our ability to commercialize Ranexa and could negatively affect our operating results. For example, a quality problem in the Ranexa supply chain could result in an inventory write-off that could negatively affect our operating results. Furthermore, we and our third party manufacturers, laboratories and clinical testing sites may be required to pass pre-approval inspections of facilities by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities before obtaining marketing approvals, including for any new drug application, if any, relating to one of our other product candidates, such as regadenoson. Even after product approval, our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers remain subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. We cannot guarantee that any such inspections will not result in compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval or negatively impact our ability to maintain product approval or distribution, or require us to expend money or other resources to correct. In addition, we or our third party manufacturers are required to adhere to stringent federal regulations setting forth current good manufacturing practices for pharmaceuticals. These regulations require, among other things, that we manufacture our products and maintain our records in a carefully prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control activities. In addition, drug product manufacturing facilities in California must be licensed by the State of California, and 34 Table of Contents other states may have comparable requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses when and where needed. Any delay in the development of any of our drug product candidates will harm our business. Any delay in the completion of our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa would increase our cash requirements and result in operating losses. In addition, data and results from clinical trials may differ substantially from those obtained in earlier studies. All of our product candidates in development require preclinical studies and/or clinical trials, and will require regulatory review and approval, prior to marketing and sale. Any delays in the development of our product candidates would delay our ability to seek and obtain regulatory approvals, increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. One potential cause of a delay in product development is a delay in clinical trials. Many factors could delay completion of any of our clinical trials, including, without limitation: • slower than anticipated patient enrollment and/or event rates; • difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials; and • adverse events occurring during the clinical trials. Our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial is a large clinical study of Ranexa, in which the completion and duration of the study is based on achieving specified numbers of events. Patient enrollment in the trial was completed in May 2006, with approximately 6,500 patients enrolled. The trial was completed in September 2006 when more than 730 events (as defined by the composite study endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction or severe recurrent ischemia), as well as 310 deaths from any cause, were observed in the study population. Although we presently expect preliminary results from the trial will become available late in the first quarter of 2007, the results from our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial may be delayed due to many factors, including if we or our contract research partners experience difficulties in scheduling final patient visits to the clinic, closing out study sites, collecting data or preparing the blinded study database for unblinding and review. The MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa is a large and expensive clinical study, and any delay in obtaining its results would adversely affect our statements of operations and increase the period of uncertainty about its results. We may be unable to maintain our proposed schedules for investigational new drug applications, which are regulatory filings made by a drug sponsor to the FDA to allow human clinical testing in the United States, and equivalent foreign applications and clinical protocol submissions to the FDA and other regulatory agencies. In addition, we may be unable to maintain our proposed schedules for initiation and completion of clinical trials as a result of FDA or other regulatory action or other factors, such as lack of funding, the occurrence of adverse safety effects or other complications that may arise in any phase of a clinical trial program. We rely on a large number of clinical research organizations and foreign clinical sites to conduct our clinical trials, which may adversely affect our ability to complete our clinical trials on a timely basis or the outcome of our clinical trials. The successful development of our products is substantially dependent on the successful and timely performance of clinical research organizations and foreign clinical sites. We use clinical research organizations to perform a variety of tasks in the conduct of our clinical trials, including patient recruitment, project management, monitoring and auditing of clinical sites, data management, data analysis, and core laboratory services. For example, we have relied on several clinical research organizations to conduct almost all aspects of our MERLIN TIMI-36 study of Ranexa. With approximately 450 clinical sites and over 6,500 patients enrolled in the study, the MERLIN TIMI-36 study is the largest and most complicated clinical trial that we have 35 Table of Contents conducted to date, and it is a complex trial to complete and close-out. We have a very limited ability to control the quality of personnel assigned by clinical research organizations to our projects. If any of these tasks are not performed by our clinical research organizations in an accurate and timely fashion, our clinical trials may be delayed and the results of our clinical trials may be adversely affected. In addition, our heavy reliance on clinical research organizations may subject us and the clinical research organizations to additional demanding regulatory inspections, which can delay and adversely affect the regulatory review and approval of our products (e.g., Ranexa in the case of the MERLIN TIMI-36 study) and product candidates (e.g., regadenoson). A significant portion of the sites conducting clinical trials of our product candidates are outside of the United States. The use of foreign clinical sites is often subject to additional risks. For example, contracts, informed consents, study protocols and complex medical terminology must be accurately translated into foreign languages. During the conduct of the study, study data contained in foreign-language source documents must be accurately and timely translated into English and reported back to study authorities. In addition, standards of medical care, clinical practice and patient populations vary from country to country, as well as the degree and manner of regulatory oversight. All of these factors introduce heterogeneity into the study, which makes the conduct of the study more complex. Due in part to the added complexity of conducting foreign clinical trials, we expect that the FDA and other regulatory authorities may be likely to conduct clinical site inspections of foreign clinical sites in connection with the review of marketing applications covering our products. To the extent that the FDA or other regulatory authorities are not satisfied with the foreign clinical site, the data from the affected sites may be excluded from the trial’s database or there may be other impacts, which can adversely affect the results of the study or the timing or results of the regulatory authority’s review of any marketing application containing those study results. Our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical study of Ranexa has been conducted in the United States and in 16 foreign countries. Our business would be harmed if the completion, availability or quality of the results of our MERLIN TIMI-36 study is delayed or adversely affected by any of these factors. If we are unable to satisfy governmental regulations relating to the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, we may be subject to significant FDA sanctions. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and in other countries. Failure to comply with FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, without limitation: • warning letters and other regulatory authority communications objecting to matters such as promotional materials and requiring corrective action such as corrective communications to healthcare practitioners; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; and • FDA refusal to review or approve pending new drug applications for unapproved products or supplemental new drug applications for previously approved products, and/or similar rejections of marketing applications or supplements by foreign regulatory authorities. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain collaborators, licensors and licensees, the development of our products could be delayed and our future capital requirements could increase substantially. We may not be able to retain or attract corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and other strategic partners. Our business strategy requires us to enter into various arrangements with these parties, and we are dependent upon the success of these parties in performing their obligations. If we fail to enter into and maintain these arrangements, the development and/or commercialization of our products would be delayed, we may be unable to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products or we might have to fund development of a particular product candidate internally. If we have to fund the development and commercialization of substantially all of our products internally, our future capital requirements will increase substantially. We or our strategic partners may also have to meet performance milestones, and other obligations under our collaborative arrangements. If we fail to meet our obligations under our collaborative arrangements, our partners could terminate their arrangements or we could suffer other consequences such as losing our rights to the compounds at issue. For example, under our agreement with Astellas relating to regadenoson, we are responsible for development activities and must meet development milestones in order to receive development milestone payments. Under our license agreement with Roche relating to Ranexa, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize ranolazine for angina, and have milestone payment obligations. The collaborative arrangements that we may enter into in the future may place responsibility on a strategic partner for preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing and preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval of potential pharmaceutical products. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to our programs. If a partner fails to successfully develop or commercialize any product, product launch would be delayed. In addition, our partners may pursue competing technologies or product candidates. In addition, arrangements in our industry are extremely complex, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights, financial provisions, and other provisions such as the parties’ respective rights with respect to decision-making. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to these issues, such as the ownership of rights to any technology developed with or by third parties. These and other possible disagreements between us and our partners could lead to delays in the research, development or commercialization of product candidates, or in the amendment or termination of one or more of our license and collaboration agreements. These disputes could also result in litigation or arbitration, which is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to complete development of any products and we may be put at a competitive disadvantage; and, if we are involved in an intellectual property rights dispute, we may not prevail and may be subject to significant liabilities or required to license rights from a third party, or cease one or more product programs. Our success will depend to a significant degree on, among other things, our ability to: • obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; • maintain trade secrets; • obtain trademarks; and • operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. However, we cannot be certain that any patent will issue from any of our pending or future patent applications, that any issued patent will not be lost through an interference or opposition proceeding, reexamination request, litigation or other proceeding, that any issued patent will be sufficient to protect our 37 Table of Contents technology and investments or prevent the entry of generic or other competition into the marketplace, or that we will be able to obtain any extension of any patent beyond its initial term. The following table shows the expiration dates in the United States for the primary compound patents for our key products and product candidates: Product/Product Candidate United States Primary Compound Patent Expiration Ranexa 2003 * Regadenoson 2019 * Because ranolazine is a new chemical entity, under applicable United States laws we have received marketing exclusivity as a new chemical entity for the ranolazine compound until January 2011. In addition, the United States compound patent relating to Ranexa has been granted several one-year interim patent term extensions under the Hatch-Waxman Act, and we expect that a patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act, will be granted which will extend the patent protection to May 2008 for the approved product, which is the Ranexa extended-release tablet, for the use in chronic angina approved by the FDA in January 2006. Also, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has issued patents claiming various sustained release formulations of ranolazine and methods of using sustained release formulations of ranolazine, including the formulation tested in our Phase 3 trials for Ranexa, for the treatment of chronic angina. These patents expire in 2019. We do not presently have any issued patent claims covering any intravenous formulation of ranolazine on a stand-alone basis, and we may not be able to obtain any issued patent claims that relate to intravenous ranolazine product(s) or the use(s) of ranolazine studied in the MERLIN TIMI-36 study. After January 2011, patent term extension and new chemical entity exclusivity under the laws of the United States will no longer be available for ranolazine, and unless additional exclusivity relating to a successful supplemental new drug application can be obtained and that exclusivity period extends past January 2011, we will be entirely reliant on our owned or licensed patents claiming uses and formulations of Ranexa, especially the formulation and method of use patents described above, to continue to protect our substantial investments in Ranexa’s development and commercialization. It is possible that one or more competitors could develop competing products that do not infringe these patent claims, or could succeed in invalidating or rendering unenforceable all or any of these issued patent claims. One or more of these patents could be lost through a reissue or reexamination submission and subsequent evaluation by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or through litigation (or other proceeding) wherein issues of validity and/or enforceability such as inequitable conduct, inventorship, ownership, prior art, and/or enablement can be raised. These patents could also be lost as a result of interference or opposition proceedings. Any intellectual property-related claims against us relating to any of these patents, with or without merit, as well as any claims initiated by us against third parties, if any, may be time-consuming, expensive and risky to defend or prosecute. In general, if we assert a patent against an alleged infringer and the alleged infringer is successful in invalidating one, more or all of the patent, or in having the patent declared unenforceable, the protection afforded by the patent is diminished or lost. In addition to these issued patents, we seek to file patent applications relating to each of our potential products, and we seek trade name and trademark protection for our commercialized products such as Ranexa. Although patent applications filed in the United States are now published 18 months after their filing date, as provided by federal legislation enacted in 1999, this statutory change applies only to applications filed on or after November 2000. Applications filed in the United States prior to this date are maintained in secrecy until a patent issues. As a result, we can never be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. There may be third party patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property relevant to our compounds, products, services, development efforts and technology which are not known to us and that may block or compete with our compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology. For example, competitors may have filed applications for, or may have received or in the future may receive, patents, trademarks and/or other proprietary rights relating to compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology that block or compete with ours. 38 Table of Contents In addition, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings determine the priority of invention and, thus, the right to a patent for the claimed technology in the United States. We may also become involved in opposition proceedings in connection with foreign patent filings. In addition, generic challenges and related patent litigation are common in the biopharmaceutical industry. Such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents or trademarks issued to us and/or to our corporate partners, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of us or third parties, including our corporate partners. For example, in May 2005, Astellas, our corporate partner for the regadenoson program in North America, announced that Astellas and a third party filed a patent infringement lawsuit against several generic companies relating to the submission of an abbreviated new drug application seeking approval of a generic version of Adenoscan® (adenosine injection), a pharmacologic stress agent approved for marketing in the United States. Regadenoson, if approved, would be intended to be a second generation pharmacologic stress agent in the United States market. It is likely that a decision in the patent litigation relating to Adenoscan® (adenosine injection), or the end of the up to 30-month stay related to this litigation, will occur before any potential approval, if any, of a new drug application for regadenoson, which could impact Astellas’ transition from marketing one product to the second generation product. Litigation, interference and opposition proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive, time-consuming and risky to pursue, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in any such case. We also must not infringe patents or trademarks of others that might cover our compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology. If third parties own or have valid proprietary rights to technology or other intellectual property that we need in our product development and commercialization efforts, we may need to obtain licenses to those rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on economically reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any necessary licenses, we may be unable to complete any of our current or future product development and commercialization activities. We also rely on proprietary technology and information, including trade secrets, to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we seek to protect all of our proprietary technology and information, in part by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators, advisors and corporate partners, these agreements may be breached. We cannot assure you that the parties to these agreements will not breach them or that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or information. In addition, we routinely grant publication rights to our scientific collaborators. Although we may retain the right to delay publication to allow for the preparation and filing of a patent application covering the subject matter of the proposed publication, we cannot assure you that our collaborators will honor these agreements. Publication prior to the filing of a patent application would mean that we would lose the ability to patent the technology outside the United States (and could also lose that ability in the United States if a patent application is not filed there within one year after such publication), and third parties or competitors could exploit the technology. Although we strive to take the necessary steps to protect our proprietary technology, including trade secrets, we may not be able to do so. As a result, third parties may gain access to our trade secrets and other proprietary technology, or our trade secrets and other proprietary technology or information may become public. In addition, it is possible that our proprietary technology or information will otherwise become known or be discovered independently by third parties, including our competitors. In addition, we may also become subject to claims that we are using or misappropriating trade secrets of others without having the right to do so. Such claims can result in litigation, which can be expensive, time-consuming and risky to defend. Litigation and disputes related to intellectual property matters are widespread in the biopharmaceutical industry. Although to date no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to 39 Table of Contents our compounds, products, services, technology or other matters in the future. If they do, we may not prevail and, as a result, we may be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, we may be required to license the disputed rights from the third parties or we may be required to cease using the technology or developing or selling the compounds or products at issue. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on economically reasonable terms, if at all. Any intellectual property-related claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, may be time-consuming, expensive and risky to defend or prosecute. If we assert a patent against an alleged infringer and the alleged infringer is successful in invalidating the patent, the protection afforded by the patent is lost. Our business depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could weaken our management team, and on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The growth of our business and our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management, research and development, sales and marketing and other operating and administrative personnel. Our key personnel include all of our executive officers and vice presidents, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge regarding one or more of our key products. We have entered into an employment agreement with our chairman and chief executive officer. We have entered into executive severance agreements with certain key personnel, and have a severance plan that covers our full-time employees. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed could limit our ability to develop and commercialize our existing and future product candidates. Such persons are in high demand and often receive competing employment offers. Our ability to retain our key personnel will also be dependent on the results of our MERLIN TIMI-36 study and on our ability to substantially increase sales of Ranexa. If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation, such as the securities class action litigation that has been filed against us, our business may be harmed. We and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in August 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California captioned Crossen v. CV Therapeutics, Inc., et al. The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities, and seeks unspecified damages. As is typical in this type of litigation, several other purported securities class action lawsuits containing substantially similar allegations were filed against the defendants. In November 2003, the court appointed a lead plaintiff, and in December 2003, the court consolidated all of the securities class actions filed to date into a single action captioned In re CV Therapeutics, Inc. Securities Litigation. In January 2004, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated complaint. We and the other named defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint in March 2004. In August 2004, these motions were granted in part and denied in part. The court granted the motions to dismiss by two individual defendants, dismissing both individuals from the action with prejudice, but denied the motions to dismiss by us and the two other individual defendants. After the motion to dismiss was decided, this action entered the discovery phase. In October 2006, we reached a preliminary agreement to settle this action. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, our insurers will pay an aggregate of $13.5 million to settle all claims and to pay the court-approved fees of plaintiff’s counsel. The defendants will receive a complete release of all claims and expressly deny any wrongdoing. The preliminary agreement is subject to standard conditions, including final court approval. There can be no assurance that final court approval will be obtained. Separately, we are participating in dispute resolution proceedings beginning in February 2007 with an insurer over whether or not we will reimburse that insurer for a portion of the insurer’s contribution to the settlement. The amount of our reimbursement will not exceed $2.25 million, and may be a lesser amount or zero. In addition, certain of our officers and directors have been named as defendants in a derivative lawsuit filed in August 2003 in California Superior Court, Santa Clara County, captioned Kangos v. Lange, et al., which names CV Therapeutics as a nominal defendant. The plaintiff in this action is one of our stockholders who seeks 40 Table of Contents to bring derivative claims on behalf of CV Therapeutics against the defendants. The lawsuit alleges breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims based on purportedly misleading statements concerning our new drug application for Ranexa. In November 2006, we reached a preliminary agreement to settle this action. Under the terms of the preliminary agreement, we agreed to implement certain non-material corporate governance changes, and our insurers will pay the court-approved fees of plaintiff’s counsel. The defendants will receive a complete release of all claims and expressly deny any wrongdoing. The preliminary agreement is subject to standard conditions, including final court approval. There can be no assurance that final court approval will be obtained. As with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Accordingly, no accrual has been established for these lawsuits. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business could be harmed. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could subject us to significant liability. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and pathogens, and the generation of waste products. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with additional environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. We currently do not carry insurance for hazardous materials claims. We do not know if we will be able to obtain insurance that covers hazardous materials claims on acceptable terms with adequate coverage against potential liabilities, if at all. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply in all material respects with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. There can also be no assurance that our operations, business or assets will not be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Most of our foreign expenses are associated with our clinical studies, such as our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial of Ranexa, or the operations of our United Kingdom-based wholly owned subsidiary. We are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates with Europe and Canada. When the United States dollar weakens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the United States dollar, may adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency risks. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance. In the event of a major earthquake in our region, our business could suffer significant and uninsured damage and loss. We currently maintain general liability, property, auto, workers’ compensation, products liability, directors’ and officers’, employment practices, cargo and inventory, foreign liability, crime and fiduciary insurance policies. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance at all, or if so that it will have adequate levels of coverage for any liabilities. Premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly over the years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, certain types of insurance such as directors’ and officers’ insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on 41 Table of Contents acceptable terms or at all. Any significant uninsured liability, or any liability that we incur in excess of our insurance coverage, may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock and Convertible Debt Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent auditors provide to us an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, adopted rules requiring public companies to include in annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by management of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we are required to have our independent auditors attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This requirement applies to each of our annual report filings on Form 10-K. With the commencement of commercial operations, we have designed, implemented and documented new internal controls for these activities. In addition, we are dependent on the internal controls maintained by our collaborative partners and service providers. If we are not successful in implementing these new internal controls for commercial operations, or if our collaborative partners fail to maintain adequate internal controls on which we rely to prepare our financial statements, our management may determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. In addition, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or monitored, then they may issue an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Within the last 12 months, our common stock has traded between $9.45 and $27.48 per share. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Announcements and other events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. We may have no control over information announced by third parties, such as our corporate partners or our competitors, which may impact our stock price. Other announcements and events that can impact the market price of the shares of our common stock include, without limitation: • results of our clinical trials and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; • our operating results; • our product sales and product revenues; • achievement of other research or development milestones, such as completion of enrollment of a clinical trial or making a regulatory filing; • adverse developments regarding the safety and efficacy of our products, our product candidates, or third-party products that are similar to our products or our product candidates; 42 Table of Contents • developments in our relationships with corporate partners; • developments affecting our corporate partners; • government regulations, reimbursement changes and governmental investigations or audits related to us or to our products; • changes in regulatory policy or interpretation; • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • changes in the ratings of our securities by securities analysts; • operating results or other developments that do not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • purchases or sales of our securities by investors who seek to exploit the volatility of our common stock price; • market conditions for biopharmaceutical or biotechnology stocks in general; and • general economic and market conditions. In addition, if we fail to reach an important research, development or commercialization milestone or result by a publicly expected deadline, even if by only a small margin, there could be a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, as we approach the announcement of important news, such as the results of the MERLIN TIMI-36 study (for which we currently expect data late in the first quarter of 2007), and as we announce such news, we expect the price of our common stock to be particularly volatile, and negative news would have a substantial negative impact on the price of our common stock. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $399.5 million in long-term convertible debt and aggregate annual debt service obligations on this debt of approximately $11.0 million. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations and interest expense will increase. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash and investments. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants and conditions in the indentures covering our convertible debt, such as our failure to make timely interest payments or our failure to timely file periodic reports required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, could trigger a default under our convertible debt. Any default could result in the acceleration of the payment of our approximately $399.5 million of outstanding debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and on our ability to maintain operations at our current levels or at all. 43 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: • requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash to service our indebtedness and to pay off the principal at maturity, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash available for other purposes, including funding our commercialization efforts, research and development programs and other capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. If we sell shares of our common stock under our equity line of credit arrangement or in other future financings, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. For example, in April 2006, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Azimuth, which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the purchase agreement, Azimuth is committed to purchase up to $200.0 million of our common stock, or 9,010,404 shares, whichever occurs first, at a discount of 3.8% to 5.8%, to be determined based on our market capitalization at the start of each sale period. The term of the purchase agreement is 36 months. Azimuth is not required to purchase shares of our common stock when the price of our common stock is below $10 per share. Upon each sale of our common stock to Azimuth under the purchase agreement, we have also agreed to pay Reedland Capital Partners a placement fee equal to one fifth of one percent of the aggregate dollar amount of common stock purchased by Azimuth. In 2006, Azimuth purchased an aggregate 2,744,118 shares of our common stock for proceeds, net of issuance costs, of approximately $39.8 million under the purchase agreement. Our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any additional shares of our common stock by Azimuth. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders will experience dilution. Provisions of Delaware law and in our charter, by-laws and our rights plan may prevent or frustrate any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and may make the acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. Our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, authorized executive severance benefit agreements for our officers in the event of a change of control, and adopted a severance plan for all non-officer employees in the event of a change of control. We entered into such severance agreements with these executives. Subsequently, in November 2002 the board approved additional as well as amended executive severance agreements and a severance plan. Our rights plan and these severance arrangements may delay or prevent a change in our current management team and may render more difficult an unsolicited merger or tender offer. 44 Table of Contents The following provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and our by-laws, may have the effects of delaying or preventing a change in our current management and making the acquisition of our company by a third party more difficult: • our board of directors is divided into three classes with approximately one third of the directors to be elected each year, necessitating the successful completion of two proxy contests in order for a change in control of the board to be effected; • any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders and may not be effected by a consent in writing; • advance written notice is required for a stockholder to nominate a person for election to the board of directors and for a stockholder to present a proposal at any stockholder meeting; and • directors may be removed only for cause by a vote of a majority of the stockholders and vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the directors in office. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholders’ approval, which also could make it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current management and for another company to acquire us. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which could delay a merger, tender offer or proxy contest or make a similar transaction more difficult. In general, this statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. If any or all of our existing notes and debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. Our existing convertible debt is convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at varying conversion prices, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of our existing convertible notes and convertible debentures. If any or all of our existing notes and debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. If any or all of our notes and debentures are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes or debentures the full aggregate principal amount of the notes or debentures, as applicable, then outstanding. Any such payment would have a material adverse effect on our cash position. Alternatively, from time to time we might need to modify the terms of the notes and/or the debentures prior to their maturity in ways that could be dilutive to our stockholders, assuming we can negotiate such modified terms. In addition, the existence of these notes and debentures may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 