Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or focused on or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business We Are Highly Dependent On Real Estate and a Downturn in the Real Estate Market May Hurt Our Business A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2008, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 73.5% of our loan portfolio. A decline in current economic conditions, a decline in the local housing market, both of which we are experiencing currently, or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans and the value of real estate owned by us, as well as our financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value of our common stock. Acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. 14 We Also Have a Concentration in Higher Risk Commercial Real Estate Loans We also have a high concentration in commercial real estate (“CRE”) loans. CRE loans as defined by final guidance issued by Bank regulators are defined as construction, land development, other land loans, loans secured by multifamily (5 or more) residential properties, and loans secured by non-farm nonresidential properties. Following this definition, approximately 64.5% of our lending portfolio can be classified as CRE lending. CRE loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage lending due, among other things, to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our income and financial condition. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, commercial real estate loans generally depend on the cash flow from the property to service the debt. Cash flow may be significantly affected by general economic conditions. Additionally, federal banking regulators recently issued final guidance regarding commercial real estate lending. This guidance suggests that institutions that are potentially exposed to significant commercial real estate concentration risk will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Institutions that have experienced rapid growth in commercial real estate lending, have notable exposure to a specific type of commercial real estate lending, or are approaching or exceed certain supervisory criteria that measure an institution’s commercial real estate portfolio against its capital levels, may be subject to such increased regulatory scrutiny. Our commercial real estate portfolio may be viewed as falling within one or more of the foregoing categories, and accordingly we may become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny because of our commercial real estate portfolio. If it is determined by our regulator that we have an undue concentration in commercial real estate lending, we may be required to maintain increased levels of capital and/or be required to reduce our concentration in commercial real estate loans. At the most recent regulatory examination in October 2008, there was no recommendation in regard to these issues. Recession and Changes in Domestic and Foreign Financial Markets May Have a Material Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Economic indices have shown that since the fourth quarter of 2007, the United States economy has been in a recession. This has been reflected in significant business failures and job losses, including the potential bankruptcies of three U.S. automobile manufacturing companies and by job losses in excess of 500,000 in each of November and December 2008. Job losses at this level are expected to continue during the first calendar quarter of 2009. In addition, in the past year, the domestic and foreign financial markets, securities trading markets and economies generally have experienced significant turmoil including, without limitation, government takeovers of troubled institutions, government brokered mergers of such firms to avoid bankruptcy or failures, bankruptcies of securities trading firms and insurance companies, failures of financial institutions and securities brokerage firms, declines in real property values, and wide fluctuations in energy prices, all of which have contributed to reduced availability of credit for businesses and consumers, elevated foreclosures on residential and commercial properties, falling home prices, reduced liquidity and a lack of stability across the entire financial sector. These recent events and the corresponding uncertainty and decline in financial markets are likely to continue for the foreseeable future. The full extent of the repercussions to our nation’s economy in general and our business in particular therefrom are not fully known at this time. Such events may have a negative effect on (i) our ability to service our existing customers and attract new customers, (ii) the ability of our borrowers to operate their business as successfully as in the past, (iii) the financial security and net worth of our customers, and (iv) the ability of our customers to repay their loans with us in accordance with the terms thereof. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. Recently Enacted Legislation and Other Measures Undertaken by the U.S. Treasury, the FRB and Other Governmental Agencies May Not Help Stabilize the U.S. Financial System or Improve the Housing Market On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: · Authority for the FRB to pay interest on depository institution balances; 15 · Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; · Temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and · Authority to the SEC to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under the TARP, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the FRB, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by financial institutions (such as the Bank) and bank holding companies (such as the Company). Under the program, newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009 will be insured in the event the issuing institution subsequently fails, or its holding company files for bankruptcy. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on December 31, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Bill”), more commonly known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package. The Stimulus Bill includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. In addition, the Stimulus Bill imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients that are in addition to those previously announced by the U.S. Treasury. The actual impact that EESA, the Stimulus Bill and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Current Levels of Market Volatility are Unprecedented The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced significant downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments Will Increase Substantially, Which Will Adversely Affect Our Net Earnings FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately $388 thousand. Deposit insurance assessments will increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund resulting from the cost of recent bank failures and an increase in the number of banks likely to fail over the next few years. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC issued a final rule increasing that assessment range for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC has announced that it intends to issue a final rule in early 2009, to be effective on April 1, 2009, to set new assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009 and to make other changes to its assessment rule. It has also stated that it may need to set a higher base rate schedule at the time of the issuance of its final assessment rate rule, depending upon the information available at that time including, without limitation, on its updated bank failure and loss projections. Our Real Estate Lending Also Exposes Us to the Risk of Environmental Liabilities In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our Business Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk and Changes in Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Our Performance and Financial Condition Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates impact the demand for new loans, the credit profile of our borrowers, the rates received on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The difference between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as interest rate spread. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, we would expect our interest rate spread to increase if interest rates rise and, conversely, to decline if interest rates fall. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services business may decrease our net interest margin by forcing us to offer lower lending interest rates and pay higher deposit interest rates. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates and increasing competition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates, prepaying their existing loans. Under those circumstances, we would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on the prepaid loans. In addition, our commercial real estate and commercial loans, which carry interest rates that, in general, adjust in accordance with changes in the prime rate, will adjust to lower rates. We are also significantly affected by the level of loan demand available in our market. The inability to make sufficient loans directly affects the interest income we earn. Lower loan demand will generally result in lower interest income realized as we place funds in lower yielding investments. Failure to Successfully Execute Our Strategy May Adversely Affect Our Performance Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to execute our corporate growth strategy. Continued growth, however, may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to attain our long-term financial performance goals include those stated elsewhere in this section, as well as: · Inability to control non-interest expense, including, but not limited to, rising employee, regulatory compliance, and healthcare costs; · Inability to increase non-interest income; and 17 · Continuing ability to expand, through de novo branching or finding acquisition targets at valuation levels we find attractive. Economic Conditions in the Central Coast of California Area May Adversely Affect Our Operations and / or Cause Us to Sustain Losses Our retail and commercial banking operations are concentrated primarily in San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara Counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. This risk increases when the economy is weak. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that Management believes is appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our loan portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that may have material adverse affects on our results of operations in general and the market value of our stock. Our primary market area is an increasingly competitive and overcrowded banking market. Our ability to achieve the growth outlined in our corporate strategic goals may be dependent in part on an ability to grow through the successful addition of new branches or the identification and acquisition of potential targets at acceptable pricing levels either inside or outside of our primary market. If we are unable to attract significant new business through strategic branching, or acquire new business through the acquisition of other banks, our growth in loans and deposits and, therefore, our earnings, may be adversely affected. We Face Strong Competition from Financial Service Companies and Other Companies That Offer Banking Services, Which May Hurt Our Business As previously mentioned, the financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting quality assets and deposits and in making loans. We compete for loans principally through the interest rates and loan fees we charge and the efficiency and quality of services we provide. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services business may reduce our market share, decrease loan demand, cause the prices we charge for our services to fall, or decrease our net interest margin by forcing us to offer lower lending interest rates and pay higher rates on our deposits. Therefore, our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most of our activities can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our Internal Operations Are Subject to a Number of Risks We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 · Information Systems We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. · Technological Advances The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. · Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. For example, the Central Coast of California is subject to earthquakes and fires. Operations in our market could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. While we have not experienced such an occurrence to date, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. · We Depend On Cash Dividends From Our Subsidiary Bank To Meet Our Cash Obligations As a holding company, dividends from our subsidiary bank provide a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust preferred securities and other obligations, including any cash dividends. See “Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.” Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiary bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. Risks Associated With Our Industry We Are Subject to Government Regulation That May Limit or Restrict Our Activities, Which in Turn May Adversely Impact Our Operations The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and State regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit our shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or repeal of existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. We anticipate that continued compliance with various regulatory provisions will impact future operating expenses. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects economic conditions for us. 19 New Legislative and Regulatory Proposals May Affect Our Operations and Growth Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of, and federal insurance premiums paid by, banks and other financial institutions and companies that control such institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and the impact such changes might have on us or our subsidiaries are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting treatment applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies, the IRS and other appropriate authorities. The likelihood and impact of any additional future changes in law or regulation and the impact such changes might have on us or our subsidiaries are impossible to determine at this time. Risks Associated With Our Stock Our Participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) May Pose Certain Risks to Holders of Our Common Stock As previously disclosed, the Company recently received preliminary approval to participate in the CPP by selling to the U.S. Treasury up to $21.0 million in preferred stock and warrants to purchase approximately $3.2 million of the Company’s common stock. The Company currently anticipates participating in the CPP. Although the Company believes that its anticipated participation in the CPP is in the best interests of our shareholders in that it will enhance Company and Bank capital and provide additional funds for future growth, it may pose certain risks to the holders of our common stock such as the following: · Under the terms outlined by the U.S. Treasury for participants in the CPP, the Company is required to issue warrants to the U.S Treasury to purchase shares of its common stock. The issuance of these warrants may be significantly dilutive to current common stockholders. · Warrants issued to the U.S. Treasury are immediately exercisable, thus the U.S. Treasury may at any time become a significant holder of the Company’s common stock and possess significant voting power. · Although the preferred equity issued to the U.S. Treasury is non-voting, the terms of the CPP stipulate that the U.S. Treasury may vote their senior equity in matters deemed by the U.S. Treasury to have an impact on their holdings. · Under the terms of the CPP the Company must seek the approval of the U.S. Treasury for any increases in dividends paid to holders of our common stock as well as any repurchases of our common stock. · Although the Company does not foresee any material changes to the terms associated with its participation in the CPP, the U.S. Government, as a sovereign body, may at any time change the terms of our participation in the CPP and or significantly influence Company policy. For more information about the Company’s participation in the CPP, see Note. 24 Subsequent Events, of the Consolidated Financial Statements filed on this Form 10-K. Our Stock Trades Less Frequently Than Others Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Our Stock Price is affected by a Variety of Factors Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors discussed in this section, including, among other things: 20 · Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; · Recommendations by securities analysts; · Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; · News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and · Perceptions in the marketplace regarding our company and/or its competitors and the industry in which we operate. Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, As Well As Certain Banking Laws, May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may hinder a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Commitments None. Item 