Item 1A. Risk Factors.We encounter substantial risks in our business, any one of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The fact that some of these risk factors may be the same or similar to those that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in prior reports means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks that are described here are part of doing business in the industries in which we operate and will likely be present in all periods. The fact that certain risks are endemic to these industries does not lessen their significance. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this report, including “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We use the terms “we”, “us” or “our” to refer to Blyth, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless suggested otherwise by the context.Our success depends on our ability to improve our financial and operational performance.Our ability to improve our financial and operational performance depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to recruit, retain and motivate consultants; reverse declines in our net sales; implement our cost savings programs and other initiatives and achieve anticipated savings and benefits; reinvest certain of those savings effectively in our business, while effectively managing our cost base; improve working capital, effectively manage inventory and implement initiatives to reduce inventory levels, including the potential impact on cash flows and obsolescence; and appropriately address the other factors described below in “Risk Factors.”The failure by our businesses to respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products or product enhancements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to increase our sales and earnings depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our existingproducts and the successful introduction of new products. Sales of PartyLite's candles and accessories and Silver Star Brands' consumer products fluctuate according to changes in consumer preferences. If our businesses are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing preferences, our sales may decline. PartyLite's candles represented a substantial portion of our sales in 2012, 2013 and 2014. If consumer demand for these products decreases significantly, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, if our businesses miscalculate consumer tastes and are no longer able to offer products that appeal to their customers, their brand images may suffer and sales and earnings would decline.PartyLite depends upon sales by its independent sales force to drive its business, and its failure to continue to recruit, retain and motivate consultants would harm its business and our financial condition and results of operations.PartyLite markets its products through its independent consultants primarily using a party plan direct selling model. This marketing system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of consultants to offset frequent turnover, which is a common characteristic found in the direct selling industry. Our consultants may terminate their services at any time. Many of them market and sell our products on a part-time basis, join us for a short-period of time and likely engage in other business activities, some of which may compete with us. If PartyLite is unable to grow its consultant sales forces and reverse declines in their total number of consultants, our business would be materially harmed. The rate of turnover of PartyLite's consultants can be very high and volatile from time to time, which may materially hinder its ability to increase its total consultant count.Our ability to recruit, retain and motivate consultants depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our prominence among direct selling companies and the general labor market, the attractiveness of our products and compensation and promotional programs, the number of people interested in direct selling, unemployment levels, economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. PartyLite relies primarily upon the efforts of its consultants to attract, train and motivate new consultants, so our sales directly depend upon their efforts. The failure by PartyLite to recruit, retain and motivate consultants and to reverse declines in its total number of consultants could negatively impact sales of its products, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.The loss by PartyLite of a significant number of its consultants could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.The loss by PartyLite of a significant number of its consultants for any reason could negatively impact the sales of its products, impair its ability to recruit new consultants and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2014, the total number of PartyLite’s consultants declined to approximately 48,000 from approximately 52,100 at December 31, 2013. 9Return to TopIn general, PartyLite does not have non-competition arrangements with its consultants that would prohibit them from promoting competing products if they terminate their relationship. Pursuant to agreements that all of PartyLite's top consultants are requested to sign, the consultant is not permitted to solicit or recruit PartyLite's consultants to participate in any other direct selling company for a period of time following the termination of their agreement. We cannot ensure that PartyLite's consultants will abide by any non-solicitation obligations or that we will be able to enforce them. Some of PartyLite’s consultants have not abided by these non-solicitation agreements following their departure and while we have, in some cases, taken legal action and other steps to seek to enforce these non-solicitation agreements, we have not always been able to do so. If PartyLite's consultants do not abide by these non-solicitation obligations or if we are unable to enforce them, our competitive position may be compromised, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.PartyLite's compensation plan, or changes that are made to its plan, may be viewed negatively by some of its consultants, could fail to achieve our desired objectives and could have a negative impact on our business.Direct selling is highly competitive and sensitive to the introduction of new competitors, new products and/or new compensation plans. Companies commonly attempt to attract new consultants by offering generous compensation plans. From time to time, PartyLite modifies components of its compensation plan in an effort to:•keep it competitive and attractive to existing and potential consultants, •cause or address a change in the behavior of its consultants, •motivate consultants to grow our business, •conform to legal and regulatory requirements, and •address other business needs. In light of the size and diversity of our consultant sales force and the complexity of our compensation plan, it is difficult to predict how any changes to the plan would be viewed by PartyLite's consultants and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. There can be no assurance that PartyLite's compensation plan will allow us to successfully attract or retain consultants, nor can we assure that any changes we make to our compensation plan will achieve our desired results.Since we cannot exert the same level of influence or control over our consultants as we could if they were our employees, we may be unable to enforce compliance with our policies and procedures, which could result in claims against us.PartyLite's consultants are independent contractors and, accordingly, PartyLite is not in a position to provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as it could if they were its employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that PartyLite's consultants will participate in its marketing strategies or plans, accept the introduction of new products or comply with policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state, local and foreign jurisdiction laws regulate our businesses, products and programs. While we have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to govern consultant conduct so that they comply with this regulatory regime, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of consultants and their independent status. Violations by our consultants of applicable laws or of our policies and procedures could reflect negatively on our products and operations, harm our business reputation or lead to the imposition of penalties or claims.The failure of our product advertising, promotional programs and recruitment techniques to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general.There are federal, state, provincial and foreign laws of general application, such as the FTC Act and state, provincial or foreign unfair and deceptive trade practices laws that could potentially be invoked to challenge our advertising, compensation practices or recruitment techniques. In particular, our recruiting efforts include promotional materials for recruits that describe the potential opportunity available to them if they become consultants. These materials, as well as our other recruiting efforts and those of consultants, are subject to scrutiny by the FTC, other enforcement agencies, our competitors, and current or former consultants with respect to misleading statements, including misleading earnings claims made to convince potential new recruits to become consultants. If claims or recruiting techniques used by PartyLite or by its consultants are deemed to be misleading, it could result in violations of the FTC Act or comparable state, provincial or foreign statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices, result in reputational harm, or be subject to court challenge under the Lanham Act and state law by our competitors and current and former consultants, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our party plan programs could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations since regulatory requirements concerning direct selling programs do not include “bright 10Return to Topline” rules. The failure of our compensation programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations over “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes would negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general.PartyLite's promotional and compensation programs are subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the FTC and various state agencies in the United States and the equivalent provincial and federal government agencies in Canada and in the other countries in which our businesses operate. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our party plan programs could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations. Regulations applicable to direct selling organizations generally are directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes, by ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within an organization is based on sales of the organization's products rather than investments in the organization or other non-retail, non-product sales related criteria. The regulatory requirements concerning party plan programs do not include “bright line” rules, and therefore, even in jurisdictions where we believe that our compensation programs are in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we are subject to the risk that these laws or regulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. The failure of our compensation programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general.Our products are subject to government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, which could increase our costs significantly and limit or prevent the sale of our products.The sale, advertisement and promotion of foods, dietary supplements, vitamins, minerals, herbal and homeopathic products and cosmetics that we sell are subject to regulation by the FDA, FTC, USPS, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and state regulatory authorities. Any of these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, or could take aggressive measures, causing or contributing to a variety of negative consequences, including:•requirements for the reformulation of products to meet new standards,•the recall or discontinuance of products,•additional record keeping,•expanded documentation of the properties of products,•expanded or different labeling,•adverse event tracking and reporting and•additional scientific substantiation.Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us.If we do not respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences, we could be vulnerable to increased exposure toexcess and obsolete inventory.The ability of our businesses to respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products or productenhancements and to manage their inventories properly is an important factor in their operations. The nature of their productsand the rapid changes in consumer preferences leave them vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Excess orobsolete inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary toreduce inventory levels. Our success depends in part on the ability of our businesses to anticipate and respond to these changes, and they may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. We have in the past written down and written off excess or obsolete inventories. The ability of our businesses to meet future product demand will depend, among other things, upon their success in improving their ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly.We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and harm our business.PartyLite and Silver Star Brands primarily market products for consumer use, although some of their products are also intended for human consumption. As such, we may be subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury to consumers, whether from consumption or otherwise. We also may be subjected to product liability claims that relate to the use of candles and claims that our candles and accessories include inadequate instructions as to their uses or inadequate warnings concerning side effects. We cannot ensure that any of our products will never be associated with consumer injury. In addition, many of our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers that also provide raw materials, which prevent us from having full control over the ingredients contained in many of our products.11Return to TopAny product liability claim brought against any of our businesses, with or without merit, could result in an increase of our product liability insurance rates. Insurance coverage varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, such liability claims could cause our consumers to lose confidence in our products and stop purchasing our products, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.All of our businesses are subject to risks from increased competition, and our failure to maintain our competitive positionwould harm us.PartyLite's business of selling candles and accessories and Silver Star Brands' business of selling a wide variety of consumer products through catalogs and the Internet are highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide markets for these products are highly fragmented, with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. In addition, we anticipate that we will be subject to increasing competition in the future from sellers that utilize eCommerce. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and sales resources, greater name recognition, larger established customer bases, and better-developed distribution channels than our businesses. Our current or future competitors may be able to develop products that are comparable or superior to those that we offer, offer competitive products at more attractive prices, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends and standards or consumer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than our businesses. Competitors in PartyLite's target market include Yankee Candle and numerous retail establishments, including big-box retailers, that sell a wide variety of candles and accessories. Silver Star Brands competes with numerous general merchandise catalogs, online retailers and retail establishments. In addition, because the industries in which our businesses operate are not particularly capital intensive or otherwise subject to high barriers to entry, it is relatively easy for new competitors to emerge to compete with us for consultants and customers.PartyLite is subject to significant competition for the recruitment of consultants from other direct selling organizations, including those that market candles and home accessories, as well as other types of products. Furthermore, the fact that our consultants may easily enter and exit our programs contributes to the level of competition that we face. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining consultants through attractive compensation plans, the maintenance of attractive product portfolios and other incentives. If our businesses are unable to compete effectively in their markets, if competition in their markets intensifies or if we are unable to recruit and retain consultants, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed.A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as our products.Recently, concerns over the global economy, including the recent financial crisis in Europe (including concerns that certainEuropean countries may default on payments due on their national debt) and the resulting economic uncertainty, as well asconcerns over unemployment in the United States and Europe, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, and the availabilityand cost of credit have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the United States and globaleconomies. A continued or protracted downturn in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionaryitems, including all of our products. Factors that could affect consumers' willingness to make such discretionary purchasesinclude general business conditions, levels of unemployment, political uncertainty, energy costs, interest rates and tax rates, theavailability of consumer credit and consumer confidence. A reduction in consumer spending could significantly reduce oursales and leave us with unsold inventory. Our results of operations are significantly affected by our success in increasing sales in our existing markets, as well asopening new markets. As we continue to expand into international markets, our business becomes increasingly subject topolitical, economic, legal and other risks. Changes in these markets could adversely affect our business.PartyLite has a history of expanding into new international markets. We believe that our ability to achieve future growth is dependent in part on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis or that new markets will be profitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can begin marketing in any international market. Also, before marketing commences in a new country or market, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our products and sales techniques will be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we may also encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures, languages, legal systems and payment methods from those encountered elsewhere. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals in new markets, or that we will have sufficient capital to finance our expansion efforts in a timely manner.12Return to TopIn many markets, other network marketing companies already have significant market penetration which may have theeffect of desensitizing the local population to a new opportunity from PartyLite, or to make it more difficult for us to attract qualified consultants. Even if PartyLite is able to commence operations in new markets, there may not be a sufficient population of individuals who are interested in direct selling in general or our business model in particular. We believe our future success will depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate PartyLite's compensation plans across all markets where legally permissible. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to utilize our compensation plans seamlessly in all existing or future markets.We face diverse risks in our international business.We depend on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, revenue from outside the United States represented 58% of our total revenue. We expect international sales to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and we plan to expand further into international markets. During 2014 and into 2015, our results of operations were negatively impacted by the significant increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the euro. Due to our reliance on sales to customers outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including:• the acceptability of our products and sales models to international consumers;• the interest in PartyLite's business, products and compensation programs to prospective overseas consultants;• United States and foreign government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions on imports toor from the United States;• foreign government taxes and regulations, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxesimposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to theUnited States;• laws and policies affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes);• foreign employment and labor laws, regulations and restrictions;• difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and difficulty in maintaining quality control;• adverse fluctuations in world currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any interest rateswap or other hedging activities we undertake;• political instability, natural disasters, health crises, war or events of terrorism;• transportation costs and delays; and• the strength of international economies.Legal actions by PartyLite's former consultants or third parties against us could harm our business.PartyLite monitors and reviews the compliance of its consultants with their respective policies and procedures as well the laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. From time to time, some consultants fail to adhere to these policies and procedures. In such cases, PartyLite may take disciplinary action against that consultant based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, which may include, for example, warnings for minor violations to termination of the relationship for more serious violations. From time to time, we become involved in litigation with a former consultant who voluntarily terminated their relationship or whose relationship has been terminated. Sometimes those former consultants have become associated with one of our competitors and that competitor may join in the action. We consider this type of litigation to be routine and incidental to our business. While neither the existence nor the outcome of this type of litigation is typically material to our business, we may become involved in litigation of this nature that results in a large cash award against us. Our competitors have also been involved in this type of litigation and, in some cases, class actions, where the result has been a large cash award against the competitor. These types of challenges, awards or settlements could provide incentives for similar actions by former consultants against us in the future. Any such challenge involving us or others in our industry could harm our business by resulting in fines or damages against us, creating adverse publicity about us or our industry, or hurting our ability to attract and retain consultants. We believe that compliance by consultants with our policies and procedures is critical to the integrity of our business, and, therefore, we will continue to be aggressive in enforcing them. As such, there can be no assurance that this type of litigation will not occur again in the future or result in an award or settlement that has an adverse effect on our business.Since our businesses rely on independent third parties to manufacture and supply many of their products, if these thirdparties fail to reliably supply products at required levels of quantity and quality, then our business, financial condition andresults of operations would be harmed.13Return to TopPartyLite manufactures substantially all of its candles, but all of its accessories are manufactured by third parties, primarily based overseas. All of Silver Star Brands' products are manufactured and supplied by third party manufacturers, primarily based overseas. If any of the third party manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide products in required volumes and at suitable quality levels, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of products would result in loss of sales, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of reliance on third party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns.If PartyLite is unable to manufacture its candles at required levels of quantity and quality, then our business, financialcondition and results of operations could be harmed.PartyLite will manufacture substantially all of its candles at its manufacturing facility in Batavia, IL. As a result, PartyLite will depend upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of one manufacturing facility. Those operations are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation, maintenance and operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies. If PartyLite's manufacturing facility was to experience a catastrophic loss, it would disrupt our operations and could result in personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with PartyLite's consultants and customers or result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility, as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. If PartyLite were to become unable to provide candles in required volumes and at suitable quality levels we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement third party manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of candles would result in loss of sales by PartyLite, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of reliance on third party manufacturers instead of PartyLite for the manufacture of its candles could have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns.PartyLite's manufacturing facility is subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling,emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste, and other toxic and hazardousmaterials. PartyLite's manufacturing operations presently do not result in the generation of material amounts of hazardous ortoxic substances. Nevertheless, complying with new or more stringent laws or regulations, or more vigorous enforcement ofcurrent or future policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by us that could have a material adverseeffect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations require us to maintainand comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safetydata regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of those requirements could result in financial penalties and otherenforcement actions and could require us to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. Thecombined costs of curing incidents of non-compliance, resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmentauthorities or of satisfying new legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition orresults of operations.Disruptions to transportation channels that we use to distribute our products may adversely affect us.We may experience disruptions to the transportation channels used to distribute our products, including increased airport andshipping port congestion, lack of transportation capacity, increased fuel expenses and a shortage of manpower. Disruptions inour container shipments may result in increased costs, including the additional use of air freight to meet demand. Although wehave not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion.Congestion in ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases inshipping costs.Our profitability may be affected by shortages or increases in the cost of raw materials.Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in production requirements,weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. PartyLite sources petroleum-based paraffin wax (which is used to manufacture candles) from several suppliers. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of paraffin, it is possible that fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse effect on the cost and availability of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of PartyLite's products. In recent years, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin and paper, negatively impacted our profitability, and the global supply of paraffin has declined. There can be no assurance that PartyLite will have continued access to an adequate supply of paraffin or that it will able to identify and procure an adequate supply of a suitable replacement if required to do so. In addition, a number of governmental authorities in the United States and abroad have introduced or are 14Return to Topcontemplating enacting legal requirements, including emissions limitations, cap and trade systems and other measures to reduce production of greenhouse gases, in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These measures may have an indirect effect on us by affecting the prices of products made from fossil fuels, including paraffin. Given the wide range of potential future climate change regulations and their effects on these raw materials, the potential indirect impact to our operations is uncertain. In addition, climate change might contribute to severe weather in the locations where fossil fuel-based raw materials are produced, such as increased hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, which could disrupt the production, availability or pricing of these raw materials. Volatility in the prices of raw materials could increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability. Moreover, we may not be able to implement price increases for products to cover any increased costs, and any price increases we implement may result in lower sales volumes. If our businesses are not successful in managing ingredient costs, if they are unable to increase their prices to cover increased costs or if such price increases reduce their sales volume, then such increases could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we lose the services of key employees, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed.We depend on the continued services of Robert B. Goergen, our executive Chairman of the Board; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer and President PartyLite Worldwide; and Jane F. Casey, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In addition, PartyLite depends upon the continued services of the other members of its current senior management teams, including the relationships that they have developed with PartyLite's senior independent consultants. The loss or departure of these key employees could negatively impact PartyLite's relationship with its senior independent consultants and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these key employees does not remain with us, our business could suffer. The loss of any key employees could negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our continued success will also depend upon our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified personnel to meet our needs. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may require an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the necessary breadth of skills and experience.We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our consultants.The earnings of consultants are subject to taxation, and, in some instances, legislation or governmental regulations impose obligations on PartyLite to collect or pay taxes, such as value-added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we may be subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of new liabilities being imposed for social security and similar taxes with respect to consultants. If local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require PartyLite to treat consultants as employees, or if consultants are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors or agents under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social charges and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus related assessments and penalties.There can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable tous, successfully integrate acquired operations or that companies we acquire will perform as anticipated.We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions in addition to internal growth. There can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or be able to finance acquisitions. We also mayencounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to theseacquisitions or in managing strategic investments. Additionally, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits weanticipate when we first enter into a transaction. We will not be required to submit acquisitions for stockholder approval,except in certain situations that have not applied to any of our acquisitions and that we do not expect to apply to any futureacquisitions. In addition, accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expensecertain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings duringperiods in which we acquire new businesses. Furthermore, covenants in our revolving loan agreement and term loan limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to engage in acquisitions.The covenants in our revolving loan agreement and term loan limit our operating and financial flexibility.The asset-based revolving loan agreement and term loan contain covenants that restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our and our domestic subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (i) incur indebtedness; (ii) create liens on assets; (iii) engage in mergers or consolidations; (iv) engage in certain dispositions or acquisitions of assets; (v) make investments, loans, guarantees or advances; (vi) pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our common stock; (vii) repay certain indebtedness; (viii) enter into sale and leaseback transactions; (ix) engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and (x) change the nature of our or our domestic subsidiaries’ business. In addition, the revolving loan agreement and term loan (a) require us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (“FCCR”) of 1.0 to 1.0 upon the occurrence of certain events or conditions, (b) with certain exceptions, 15Return to Topprohibit us from making acquisitions if the FCCR is less than 1.0 to 1.0, and (c) among other conditions, prohibit us from paying dividends or repurchasing our common stock under certain circumstances. We estimate that our FCCR was less than 1.0 to 1.0 at February 28, 2015. The term loan also requires us to make certain prepayments out of "excess cash flow" starting in 2017. The revolving loan agreement and term loan also contains certain additional affirmative, negative and financial covenants and events of default.If our businesses fail to protect their intellectual property, then our ability to compete could be negatively affected.All of our businesses attempt to protect their intellectual property rights, both in the United States and elsewhere, through acombination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. The failure by our businesses to obtain or maintain adequate protection of their intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We also possess trade secret rights in our consultant lists and related contact information. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we currently require most of our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot ensure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for any of our trade secrets, knowhow or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary and/or secret nature of our products and consultant lists, we could be materially adversely affected. Further, loss of protection for our consultant lists could harm our ability to recruit and retain consultants, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names.We own most of the material trademarks and trade-name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing anddistribution of our products in the markets where those products are sold. We rely on these trademarks, trade names, tradedress and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied toregister many of these trademarks. We may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade-name protection against thirdparties or otherwise successfully defending against a challenge to our trademarks or trade names. In addition, the laws ofother countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In the event that our trademarks or trade names are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, remove products from the market or pay a settlement, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands and building goodwill in these new brands, trademarks and trade names. Further, we cannot ensure that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, pass off themselves or their goods and services as being ours or associated with ours or otherwise deprecate the value of the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. Infringement of our trademarks or trade names, passing off by a competitor or deprecating the goodwill associated with our trademarks could impair the goodwill associated with our brands and harm our reputation, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations.We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties' intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual propertyinfringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing,selling or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand ourproducts or packaging, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensingagreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, ifrequired, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.We depend upon our information-technology systems, and if we experience interruptions in these systems, our business,financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.Our businesses are increasingly dependent on information-technology systems to operate their websites, communicate withtheir independent consultants, calculate compensation due to their consultants, process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations, including information technology that they license from third parties. There is no guarantee that our businesses will continue to have access to these third-party information-technology systems after the current license agreements expire, and if they do not obtain licenses to use effective replacement information-technology systems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Previously, our businesses have experienced interruptions resulting from upgrades to some of their information-technologysystems that temporarily reduced the effectiveness of their operations. Our information-technology systems depend on globalcommunication providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have16Return to Topexperienced system failures in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss,telecommunication failures and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems arevulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. Theoccurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information-technology systems and inhibit internal operations,the ability to provide service to our consultants and customers or their ability to access our information systems. If we are unable to effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results.The Internet plays a major role in our interaction with customers and consultants. The disruptions described above may make our websites and online services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce our sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. Risks such as changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy regulations are key concerns related to the Internet. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties could reduce sales, increase costs and damage our relationships.Management uses information systems to support decision-making and to monitor business performance. We may fail togenerate accurate financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management. Failure toadopt systematic procedures to maintain quality information-technology general controls could impact management's decision making and performance monitoring, which could disrupt our business. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controlssuch as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operateour business could be limited.As a result of our online sales, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including personal information. If we fail to prevent or mitigate data loss, security breaches or the circumvention of our security measures, our systems could allow data loss or misappropriation of confidential, proprietary and/or personal information - including that of third parties such as consultants and customers collected in our online businesses - or could interrupt our operations, damage our computers or otherwise harm our reputation and business. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect this information and prevent data loss and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition, we rely on third party technology, systems and services in certain aspects of our business, including storage encryption and authentication technology to securely transmit confidential information. These third party systems also cannot provide absolute security. Our storage of user and employee data subjects us to a number of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing the collection, storage, handling or sharing of personal data.We collect, handle, store and disclose personal data collected from users of our websites and mobile applications, as well as ouremployees, consultants, and potential and actual purchasers of our products. In this regard, we are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. The FTC, state attorneys general and foreign data protection and consumer protection authorities actively investigate and enforce compliance with laws and regulations governing fair information practices, as they are evolving in practice and being tested in courts. These laws, including the FTC Act, could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business, particularly if we are deemed to engage in unfair or deceptive trade practices with regard to our collection, storage, handling or sharing of personal data. Risks attendant upon our conduct of business on the Internet and data collection practices may involve user or employee privacy, data protection, electronic contracts, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. The adoption of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations regarding the storage, handling, collection and sharing of personal data may result in significant compliance costs or otherwise negatively impact our business. Our consultants also collect, store, handle and process personal data. A violation of law or fair information practices by a consultant could cause us financial or reputational harm.A breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, hardware, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business or reputation.Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose a potential risk to the security of our information technology systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Since the techniques used in these cyber-attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. Our information technology systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing and other cyber-attacks. To date, we have seen no material impact on our business or operations from these attacks; however, we cannot guarantee that our security efforts will prevent breaches or breakdowns to our or our third party providers’ databases or systems. If the information 17Return to Toptechnology systems, networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss, significant unavailability or disclosure of our business, customer, consultant or other information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. The costs and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant.Our business is susceptible to fraud, including credit card and debit card fraud.Our customers and consultants typically pay for their orders with debit cards or credit cards. Our reputation, business and results of operations could be negatively impacted if we experience credit card and debit card fraud. Failure to adequately detect and avoid fraudulent credit card and debit card transactions could cause our businesses to lose their ability to accept credit cards or debit cards as forms of payment and/or result in charge-backs of the fraudulently charged amounts and/or significantly decrease revenues. Furthermore, credit card and debit card fraud may lessen customers' and consultants' willingness to purchase our products.Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our financial results.Our effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors,including:• the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;• adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;• changes in available tax credits;• changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;• the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities;• the non-deductibility of certain expenditures for tax purposes;• changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; and• penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions.A substantial amount of our deferred tax assets include foreign tax credits. We reduce deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, some portion or all of the deferred tax assets are unlikely to be realized. Recording of valuation allowances includes estimates and therefore involves inherent uncertainty. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a $19.6 million valuation allowance on foreign tax credits. We may also be required to record valuation allowances in the future, and our future results and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are required to do so. We may also be affected by future tax regulatory changes since the recordation of deferred tax assets and valuation allowances have been made based on the currently effective tax regulations.We do not collect sales or consumption taxes in some states.Some jurisdictions have implemented, or may implement, laws that require out-of-state sellers of tangible personal property to collect and remit taxes. In particular, the Streamlined Sales Tax Project (an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state and local governments to pursue federal legislation that would require collection and remittance of remote sales tax by out-of-state sellers) could allow states that meet certain simplification and other standards to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. The adoption of remote sales tax collection legislation would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on us. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries requiring us to collect taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest.Since our periodic results of operations may fluctuate, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors orsecurities analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline.Our periodic results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our periodicresults of operations may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including those listed below, many of which are outside of ourcontrol:• demand for and market acceptance of our products;• our ability to recruit, retain and motivate consultants;18Return to Top• the timing and success of introductions of new products by us or our competitors;• the strength of the economy;• changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;• competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors;• the impact of seasonality on our business; and• the international expansion of our operations.These factors, among others, make business forecasting difficult, may cause quarter to quarter fluctuations in our results ofoperations and may impair our ability to predict financial results accurately, which could reduce the market price of ourcommon stock. Therefore, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter or year as an indication of future performance.Furthermore, period to period comparisons of our results of operations may not be as meaningful for our company as they maybe for other public companies.Our profitability could be adversely affected by increased mailing, printing and shipping costs.Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. Future additionalincreases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce Silver Star Brands' profitability to the extent that it is unableto pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number andsize of certain catalog circulations. The sales volume and profitability of both of our businesses could be affected by increased costs to ship our products.The turmoil in the financial markets in recent years could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increasethe cost of financing our operations and investments and could result in additional impairments to our businesses.United States and global credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years, making it difficult formany businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, in recent years equity markets have experiencedrapid and wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may bemore difficult to obtain financing for our businesses. In addition, while our debt is not currently being rated, our future borrowing costs could be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies if we choose to raise capital with public debt. A decrease in these ratings by the agencies would likely increase our cost of future borrowings and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. In the event current market conditions continue we will more than likely be subject to higher interest costs than we are currently incurring. In addition, we may be subject to future impairments of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventories, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, if the valuation of these assets or businesses declines.We have agreed to lend ViSalus up to $6.0 million and to reimburse them for up to $4.0 million in legal fees.In October 2014, we and ViSalus entered into a revolving loan agreement pursuant to which we agreed to lend ViSalus up to $6.0 million. The revolving loan agreement will terminate on the later of (i) October 17, 2019 or (ii) resolution of the putative class action that is pending against ViSalus and others in the United States District Court in the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division (the “ViSalus Lawsuit”). Loans made under the revolving loan agreement will be unsecured and there are no financial performance covenants under the loan agreement and limited negative covenants. ViSalus will be permitted to obtain financing from other parties, whether that financing is secured or unsecured. In addition, in connection with the ViSalus recapitalization in September 2014, we agreed to reimburse and pay on behalf of ViSalus 80% of the legal fees and disbursements reasonably charged by ViSalus’s legal counsel and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by ViSalus in defending ViSalus and certain others against the claims asserted by the plaintiffs in the ViSalus Lawsuit, up to a maximum amount of $4.0 million.The operation of Silver Star Brands' credit program, including higher than expected rates of customer defaults, couldadversely affect Silver Star Brands' sales and earnings and impact its cash flow from operations.Silver Star Brands allows some of its customers to purchase products and pay for them with monthly payments over time,which impacts Silver Star Brands' working capital requirements and cash flow from operations. Although customers areselected and dollar limits on their purchases under the program are set using parameters that seek to ensure that most customerswill be able to make the monthly payments under the program, some customers default on their obligations under the programand there is a risk that defaults may occur in larger than anticipated amounts. In addition the program may become subject toregulatory regimes including, but not limited to, regulations that might be issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.The operation of the credit program and the application of such regulatory regimes or changes to them, if either occurs, may affect Silver Star Brands' sales and/or financial performance.19Return to TopOur stock price has been volatile, has a small public float and is subject to market conditions.The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Due to the large ownership of our common stockby Robert B. Goergen and his affiliates, we have a relatively small public float compared to the number of our sharesoutstanding. Accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which investors' interest in our common stock will provide an activeand liquid trading market.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, or publish negative reports aboutour business, our share price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock depends, to some extent, on the research reports that securities or industryanalysts may publish about us. We are not currently followed by securities or industry analysts, and there can be no assurancethat any analysts will begin to follow us. In the event that securities or industry analysts begin to cover us, we will not haveany control over them or the reports that they may issue. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates in thefuture or one or more of the analysts who cover us at such time downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, ourshare price would likely decline. Since we are not currently followed by analysts, we do not have significant visibility in thefinancial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, since we do not currently have any analyst coverage, the price of our stock may be influenced by articles and opinions expressed in newsletters or on Internet message boards, any of which may contain inaccuracies or misstatements. If analysts begin to cover us and one ormore of such analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, our share price or tradingvolume may decline. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts andinvestors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially.If we fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the market may have reduced confidence in ourreported financial information.We must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy therequirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will continue to perform the documentation andevaluations needed to comply with Section 404. If during this process our management identifies one or more materialweaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective,which may cause market participants to have reduced confidence in our reported financial condition.20Return to TopItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.