Item 1A. Risk Factors. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS There are factors, many beyond the Company’s control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of the Company. Some of these factors are described below in the sections titled “Company Factors” and “Industry Factors,” however, many are described in the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company Factors The Company’s accounting policies and estimates are critical components of the Company’s presentation of its financial statements. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different than amounts previously estimated. Management has identified five accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of the Company’s financial statements. These policies are described under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and relate to the following: · Allowance for loan losses · Mortgage servicing rights · Refund Anticipation Loan (“RAL”) securitization and valuation of residual · Income tax accounting · Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company’s lines of business and products not typically associated with traditional banking expose the Company’s earnings to additional risks and uncertainties. In addition to traditional banking and mortgage banking products, the Company provides RALs and “Overdraft Honor” deposit accounts. The following details specific risk factors related to these lines of business: · RALs represent a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the business it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. Tax Refund Solutions (“TRS”) offers bank products to facilitate the payment of tax refunds for customers that electronically file their tax returns. The Company is one of only a few financial institutions in the U.S. that provides this service to taxpayers. Under this program, the taxpayer may receive a RAL, or an Electronic Refund Check or Electronic Refund Deposit (“ERC/ERD”). In return, the Company charges a fee for the service. During 2007, net income from the Company’s TRS business segment accounted for approximately 11% of the Company’s total net income. Various governmental and consumer groups have, from time to time, questioned the fairness of the RAL program and have accused this industry of charging excessive/usurious rates of interest, via the fee, and engaging in predatory lending practices. Consumer groups have also claimed that customers are not adequately advised that a RAL is a loan product and that alternative, less expensive means of obtaining tax refund proceeds may be available. Actions of these groups and others could result in regulatory, governmental or legislative action or material litigation against the Company. Exiting this line of business, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would significantly reduce the Company’s earnings. See the sections titled “Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as Footnote 5 “Securitization” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion regarding TRS. · The TRS business segment represents a significant operational risk, and if the Company were unable to properly service the anticipated growth in the business it could materially impact the earnings of the Company. On September 19, 2007, Republic Bank & Trust Company (“RB&T”) entered into a three year Program Agreement with Jackson Hewitt Inc. (“JHI”) and a three year Technology Services Agreement with Jackson Hewitt Technology Services LLC (“JHTSL”) related to RB&T’s RAL and ERC/ERD products. JHI and JHTSL are subsidiaries of Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc., which provides computerized preparation of federal, state and local individual income tax returns in the U.S. through a nationwide network of franchised and company-owned tax offices operating under the brand name Jackson Hewitt Tax Service®. 14 The Program and Technology Service Agreements are effective for TRS’ first quarter 2008 RAL and ERC/ERD tax season and provide for TRS to be the exclusive provider of RAL and ERC/ERD products for a select group of Jackson Hewitt Tax Service offices. During 2007, the select group of Jackson Hewitt Tax Services offices that will begin making TRS products available during 2008 produced approximately 70% of the total number of RAL and ERC/ERD products generated by TRS with others during 2007. In addition to the new business expected to be acquired through the Jackson Hewitt relationship, the Company also anticipates significant growth through its independent tax-preparer base as well. Material growth in the TRS business segment requires a significant increase in technology and employees to service the new business. In order to process the new business, the Company must implement and test new systems, as well as train new employees. Significant operational problems could cause the Company to incur higher than normal credit losses. Significant operational problems could also cause a material portion of the Company’s tax-preparer base to switch to a competitor bank to process their bank product transactions, significantly reducing the Company’s projected revenue without a corresponding decrease in expenses. See the sections titled “Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as Footnote 5 “Securitization” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion regarding TRS. · RALs represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and if the Company fails to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements it could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters relating to the offering of RALs. Failure to comply with disclosure requirements such as Regulation B, Fair Lending and Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, or with laws relating to the permissibility of interest rates and fees charged could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. See the sections titled “Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as Footnote 5 “Securitization” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion regarding TRS. · RALs represent a significant liquidity risk. Significantly overestimating or underestimating the Company’s liquidity need for the upcoming tax season could have a material negative impact on the Company’s overall earnings. Funding for the RAL liquidity requirements may also cost more than the Company’s current estimates. The Company’s liquidity risk increases significantly during the first quarter of each year due to the RAL program. The Company has committed to the electronic filers and tax-preparer base that it will make RALs available to their customers under the terms of its contracts with them. This requires the Company to estimate liquidity needs for the RAL program well in advance of the tax season. If management materially overestimates the need for liquidity during the tax season, a significant expense could be incurred without an offsetting revenue stream. If management materially underestimates the need for liquidity during the tax season, the Bank could experience a significant shortfall of capital needed to fund RALs and could potentially be required to stop originating new RALs. In addition to the new business expected to be acquired through the Jackson Hewitt relationship, the Company also expects significant growth through its independent tax-preparer customer base as well. The Company expects its 2008 RAL program to require significantly more liquidity than prior tax seasons. Management intends to utilize a securitization structure once again in 2008 to fund a significant portion of the RAL portfolio. Given a general lack of liquidity currently in the credit markets, the Company may not be able to obtain all of its necessary funding from the securitization structure with terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company cannot obtain all of its necessary funding from the securitization structure, it would be forced to obtain additional funding from other sources such as brokered deposits and lines of credit and may need to draw on holding company lines of credit to provide capital to RB&T. These sources must ideally be established well in advance of the tax season in order to ensure their availability, and also their timing and short-term duration may cause the Company to incur significant additional funding costs. See the sections titled “Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as Footnote 5 “Securitization” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion regarding TRS. 15 · RALs represent a significant credit risk, and if the Company is unable to collect a significant portion of its RALs it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. There is credit risk associated with a RAL because the money is disbursed to the customer prior to the Company receiving the customer’s refund from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The Company collects substantially all of its payments related to RALs from the IRS. Losses generally occur on RALs because the Company does not receive payment from the IRS due to reasons such as taxpayer or tax-preparer fraud, taxpayer or tax-preparer errors on returns, and tax debts not disclosed to the Company, among other reasons. Historically at TRS, credit losses related to RALs within a given calendar year have ranged from a low of 0.49% to a high of 1.70% of total RALs originated (including retained and securitized RALs). During 2007, the Company incurred $6.6 million in gross losses associated with RALs both retained on balance sheet by the Company and securitized by the Company. Losses as a percent of total RALs originated (including retained and securitized RALs) during 2007 were 1.14%. In addition to the new business expected to be acquired through the Jackson Hewitt relationship, the Company also expects significant growth through its independent tax-preparer base as well. Although the Company expects losses to track within historical levels in terms of percentage of total loans originated, management cannot guarantee any range of losses associated with the RAL business. Losses significantly above historical levels could have a material negative impact on the Company’s overall earnings. See the sections titled “Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as Footnote 5 “Securitization” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion regarding TRS. · RB&T has substantial risk in connection with the RAL securitization. A residual represents the retained interest created in a securitization and typically represents the first loss position. Residuals are not typically rated by nationally recognized rating agencies. In a securitization transaction, the Company may recognize a gain on sale resulting from the related residual in the securitized loans when it sells the assets. The value assigned to the residual depends upon certain assumptions made regarding the future performance of the securitized loan portfolio, including the level of credit losses. If actual credit losses differ from the original assumptions, the value of the residual may decrease materially, possibly resulting in a charge against future earnings. Decreases in the value of the residual in the securitization due to higher than expected credit losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the sections titled “Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as Footnote 5 “Securitization” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion regarding TRS. · The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program represents a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the program it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company’s regulators, or others, will not impose additional limitations on this program or prohibit the Company from offering the program. The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program permits eligible customers to overdraft their checking accounts up to a predetermined dollar amount for the Bank’s customary overdraft fee(s). Generally, to be eligible for the Overdraft Honor program, customers must qualify for one of the Company’s traditional checking products when the account is opened and remain in that product for 30 days; have deposits of at least $500; and have had no overdrafts or returned deposited items. Once the eligibility requirements have been met, the client is eligible to participate in the Overdraft Honor program. If an overdraft occurs, the Company may pay the overdraft, at its discretion, up to $500 (an account in good standing after two years is eligible for up to $1,000). Under regulatory guidelines, customers utilizing the Overdraft Honor program may remain in overdraft status for no more than 45 days. Generally, an account that is overdrawn for 60 consecutive days is closed and the balance is charged off. Overdraft balances from deposit accounts, including those overdraft balances resulting from the Company’s Overdraft Honor program, are recorded as a component of loans on the Company’s balance sheet. The Company assesses two types of fees related to overdrawn accounts, a fixed per item fee and a fixed daily charge for being in overdraft status. The per item fee for this service is not considered an extension of credit, but rather is considered a fee for paying checks when sufficient funds are not otherwise available. As such, it is classified on the income statement in “service charges on deposits” as a component of non interest income along with per item fees 16 assessed to customers not in the Overdraft Honor program. A substantial majority of the per item fees in service charges on deposits relates to customers in the Overdraft Honor program. The daily fee assessed to the client for being in overdraft status is considered a loan fee and is thus included in interest income on loans. The Company earns a substantial majority of its fee income related to this program from the per item fee it assesses its customers for each insufficient funds check or electronic debit presented for payment. Both the per item fee and the daily fee assessed to the account resulting from its overdraft status, if computed as a percentage of the amount overdrawn, results in a high rate of interest when annualized and are thus considered excessive by some consumer groups. The total per item fees included in service charges on deposits for 2007 and 2006 were $13.7 million and $12.1 million. The total daily overdraft charges included in interest income for 2007 and 2006 were $2.7 million and $2.1 million. Additional limitations or elimination, or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would significantly reduce Company earnings. The Company owns $35 million of securities which the Company believes have an elevated level of credit risk and are extremely illiquid. Nationally, residential real estate values have declined. These declines in value, coupled with the reduced ability of homeowners to refinance or repay their residential real estate obligations, have led to elevated delinquencies and losses in residential real estate loans. Many of these loans have previously been securitized and sold to investors as corporate mortgage backed or other corporate mortgage-related securities. The Company owns $35 million in corporate mortgage backed and other corporate mortgage-related securities. These securities are not guaranteed by government agencies. Approximately $24 million of these securities are rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and are backed by “Alternative A” first lien mortgage loans. The remaining $11 million are asset backed securities with an insurance “wrap” or guarantee. These asset backed securities are AA rated by S&P. Due to current market conditions, all of these assets are extremely illiquid, and as such, the market value is unable to be reasonably estimated due to the volatility in the mortgage industry. The average life of these securities is estimated to be approximately five years. At this time, management intends to hold these securities until maturity and does not believe the Company will incur any loss of principal. Further deterioration in the real estate markets and/or deterioration in the financial condition of the insurance company providing the “wrap” could produce a loss of principal in the future. As of the date of this filing, none of these securities have been downgraded by the applicable rating agency. See additional discussion under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Footnote 3 “Securities” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Mortgage banking activities would be significantly adversely impacted by rising long-term interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the gain on sale of loans, loan origination fees and loan servicing fees, which account for a significant portion of mortgage banking income. A decline in interest rates generally results in higher demand for mortgage products, while an increase in rates generally results in reduced demand. If demand increases, mortgage banking income will be positively impacted by more gains on sale; however, the valuation of existing mortgage servicing rights will decrease and may result in a significant impairment. Moreover, a decline in demand for mortgage banking products could also adversely impact other programs/products such as home equity lending, title insurance commissions and service charges on deposit accounts. See additional discussion about this product under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Footnote 6 “Mortgage Banking Activities” and Footnote 24 “Segment Information” of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Company’s stock generally has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a shareholder’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly sell large numbers of shares of Republic’s stock without causing wide price fluctuations. Republic’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, such as actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation, regulatory actions or changes in government regulations, among other factors. A low average daily stock trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. The Company’s insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company’s Chairman, President, and Vice Chairman hold substantial amounts of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes. This group generally votes together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. Consequently, other stockholders’ ability to influence the Company’s actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. The Company cannot assure you that majority stockholders will vote their shares in accordance with your interests. 17 Industry Factors Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s banking business. Republic’s core source of income from operations consists of net interest income, which is equal to the difference between interest income received on interest-earning assets (typically loans and investment securities) and the interest expenses incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (typically deposits and borrowing sources). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Republic’s net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates may reduce Republic’s net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense declines. As a result, Republic has adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations or financial position. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on Republic’s results of operations by reducing the ability of customers to repay their outstanding loans, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge offs, but may also likely necessitate further increases to Republic’s allowance for loan losses. The Company is significantly impacted by the regulatory, fiscal and monetary policies of federal and state governments which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity position and earnings. These policies can materially affect the value of the Company’s financial instruments and can also adversely affect the Company’s customers and their ability to repay their outstanding loans. Also, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or adverse examination findings, could result in significant penalties, negatively impact operations, or result in other sanctions against the Company. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine, in large part, the Company’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return the Company earns on these loans and investments, all of which impact net interest margin. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels. This regulatory oversight is primarily intended to protect depositors, the DIF and the banking system as a whole, not the shareholders of the Company. Changes in policies, regulations and statutes, or the interpretation thereof, could significantly impact the product offerings of Republic causing the Company to terminate or modify its product offerings in a manner that could materially adversely affect the earnings of the Company. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. Various federal and state regulatory agencies possess cease and desist powers, and other authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. The FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These, and other restrictions, can limit in varying degrees, the manner in which Republic conducts its business. Republic is subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if the Company fails to meet these guidelines the Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Republic and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If Republic fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Republic’s financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Republic’s failure to maintain well-capitalized status under its regulatory framework, or well-managed under regulatory exam procedures, or regulatory violations, could compromise Republic’s status as a Financial Holding Company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals and limit the ability of the Company to offer certain financial products. The Company’s financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted to the extent the Company relies on information that is false, misleading or inaccurate. The Company relies on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by vendors, customers and other parties. In deciding whether to extend credit, including RALs, or enter into transactions with other parties, the Company relies on information furnished by, or on behalf of, customers or entities related to those customers. 18 Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively impact the Company. When borrowers default on obligations of one or more of their loans, it may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses, as a result of the increased allocation of management time and resources to the subsequent collection efforts. In certain situations where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable “work out” arrangements cannot be reached or performed, the Company may have to charge off loans, either in part or in whole. Prepayment of loans may negatively impact Republic’s business. The Company’s customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within the Company’s customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Company is unable to lend those funds to other customers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, Republic’s interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income would have a negative impact on Republic’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 