Item 1A. Risk Factors.We encounter substantial risks in our business, any one of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The fact that some of these risk factors may be the same or similar to those that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in prior reports means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks that are described here are part of doing business in the industries in which we operate and will likely be present in all periods. The fact that certain risks are endemic to these industries does not lessen their significance. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this report, including “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We use the terms “we”, “us” or “our” to refer to Blyth, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless suggested otherwise by the context.The failure by our businesses to respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products orproduct enhancements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to increase our sales and earnings depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our existing products and the successful introduction of new products. Sales of ViSalus's weight-management products, nutritional supplements, functional foods and energy drink mixes, PartyLite's candles and accessories and Silver Star Brands' consumer products fluctuate according to changes in consumer preferences. If our businesses are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing preferences, our sales may decline. ViSalus's weight-management products and PartyLite's candles represented a substantial portion of our sales in 2012 and 2013. If consumer demand for these products decreases significantly, or ViSalus ceases offering weight-management products without offering a suitable replacement, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, if our businesses miscalculate consumer tastes and are no longer able tooffer products that appeal to their customers, their brand images may suffer and sales and earnings would decline.ViSalus and PartyLite depend upon sales by their independent sales forces to drive their businesses, and their failure tocontinue to recruit, retain and motivate promoters and consultants would harm their business and our financial conditionand results of operations.ViSalus markets its products and The Challenge through its independent promoters using a network marketing model andPartyLite markets its products through its independent consultants primarily using a party plan direct selling model. Both ofthese marketing systems depend upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of promoters andconsultants to offset frequent turnover, which is a common characteristic found in the direct selling industry. Our promotersand consultants may terminate their services at any time. Many of them market and sell our products on a part-time basis andlikely engage in other business activities, some of which may compete with us. If ViSalus and PartyLite were unable to growtheir promoter and consultant sales forces and reverse declines in their total number of promoters and consultants, our businesswould be materially harmed. The rates of turnover of ViSalus's and PartyLite's promoters and consultants can be very high andvolatile from time to time, which may materially hinder their abilities to increase their total promoter and consultant counts.Our ability to recruit, retain and motivate promoters and consultants depends on a number of factors, including, but not limitedto, our prominence among direct selling companies and the general labor market, the attractiveness of our products andcompensation and promotional programs, the number of people interested in direct selling, unemployment levels, economicconditions and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. ViSalus and PartyLite both rely primarily upon the effortsof their promoters and consultants to attract, train and motivate new promoters and consultants, so our sales directly dependupon their efforts. The failure by ViSalus or PartyLite to recruit, retain and motivate promoters and consultants and to reversedeclines in their total number of promoters and consultants could negatively impact sales of their products, which could harmour business, financial condition and results of operations.The loss by ViSalus or PartyLite of a leading promoter or consultant, together with his or her associated sales organization,or the loss of a significant number of promoters or consultants for any reason, could harm our business, financial conditionand results of operations.Sales generated by a small number of promoters, together with their associated sales organizations, represent a majority ofViSalus's net sales. In addition, there are a number of promoters whose generated sales, together with those of their salesorganizations, represent in excess of 10% of ViSalus's net sales. In particular, sales generated by one of ViSalus's founders andpromoters, Nick Sarnicola, together with his wife and their sales organizations and customers to whom they market representeda substantial percentage of ViSalus's net sales in 2012 and 2013. The loss by ViSalus of one or more of its leading promoters,together with their respective associated sales organizations, or the loss of a significant number of promoters or consultants byViSalus or PartyLite for any reason, could negatively impact sales of their products, impair their ability to recruit new promoters or consultants and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the last year, the total 15Return to Topnumber of ViSalus’s promoters has declined from 76,000 at December 31, 2012 to 37,000 at December 31, 2013, and over the same period, the number of PartyLite’s total consultants has declined from 54,000 to 52,000.In general, ViSalus and PartyLite do not have non-competition arrangements with their promoters and consultants that wouldprohibit them from promoting competing products if they terminate their relationship. Pursuant to agreements that all ofViSalus's and PartyLite's top promoters and consultants must sign, the promoter or consultant is not permitted to solicit orrecruit ViSalus promoters or PartyLite's consultants to participate in any other direct selling company for a period of timefollowing the termination of their agreement. We cannot ensure that ViSalus's promoters or PartyLite's consultants willabide by any non-solicitation obligations or that we will be able to enforce them. Some of ViSalus’s promoters and PartyLite’s consultants have not abided by these non-solicitation agreements following their departure and while we have, in some cases, taken legal action and other steps to seek to enforce these non-solicitation agreements, we have not always been able to do so. If ViSalus's promoters and PartyLite's consultants do not abide by these non-solicitation obligations or if we are unable to enforce them, our competitive position may be compromised, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.ViSalus's and PartyLite's compensation plans, or changes that are made to those plans, may be viewed negatively by someof their promoters and consultants and could fail to achieve our desired objectives, which could have a negative impact on our business.Direct selling and network marketing are highly competitive and sensitive to the introduction of new competitors, new productsand/or new compensation plans. Companies commonly attempt to attract new distributors by offering generous compensationplans. From time to time, ViSalus and/or PartyLite modify components of their compensation plans in an effort to:• keep them competitive and attractive to existing and potential promoters and consultants,• cause or address a change in the behavior of their promoters and consultants,• motivate promoters and consultants to grow our business,• conform to legal and regulatory requirements, and• address other business needs.In light of the size and diversity of our promoter and consultant sales force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it isdifficult to predict how any changes to the plans will be viewed by ViSalus's promoters or PartyLite's consultants and whethersuch changes will achieve their desired results. There can be no assurance that ViSalus's or PartyLite's compensation plans willallow us to successfully attract or retain promoters or consultants, nor can we assure that any changes we make to ourcompensation plans will achieve our desired results.If we fail to retain our existing customers or attract new customers, our business, financial condition and results ofoperations may be harmed.ViSalus and PartyLite are customer-driven businesses, and the size of their customer bases and the amount that their customersspend on their products are critical to their success. Increases in sales to customers are driven primarily by obtaining newcustomers and retention of existing customers, rather than through increases in the average monthly expenditures of customers.Many of ViSalus's customers sign up for an automatic monthly shipment of products. ViSalus must continually add newcustomers to replace those who cancel their auto-shipments and to grow its business over time. Customers choose tocancel their auto-shipments for a wide variety of reasons, many of which are not within ViSalus's control, including the conclusion of their 90-day Challenge, their desire to reduce discretionary spending, product dissatisfaction, their perception that competitive products provide a better value or benefit to them, or customer service issues are not addressed to their satisfaction.Since we cannot exert the same level of influence or control over our promoters and consultants as we could if they wereour own employees, we may be unable to enforce compliance with our policies and procedures, which could result in claimsagainst us.ViSalus's promoters and PartyLite's consultants are independent contractors and, accordingly, neither ViSalus nor PartyLite isin a position to provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as it could if they were its employees. As a result, therecan be no assurance that ViSalus's promoters and PartyLite's consultants will participate in their marketing strategies orplans, accept the introduction of new products or comply with policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state, local and foreign jurisdiction laws regulate our businesses, products and programs. While we have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to govern promoter and consultant conduct so that they comply with this regulatory regime, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of promoters and consultants and their independent status. 16Return to TopViolations by our promoters or consultants of applicable laws or of our policies and procedures could reflect negatively on our products and operations, harm our business reputation or lead to the imposition of penalties or claims.Our product advertising and promotional programs are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign jurisdiction regulations. The failure of our product advertising and promotional programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general.The FTC exercises jurisdiction in the United States over product advertising in general and advertising of conventional foodsand dietary supplements in particular and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against companies for false andmisleading claims and for failure to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising. The FTC also regulatespromotional offers, including purported “savings” from the regular or suggested retail price of products. In the event that theFTC pursues an enforcement action against any of our businesses, our businesses could be subject to consent decrees that couldlimit their ability to make certain claims with respect to their products and require them to pay civil penalties. The NationalAdvertising Division, which we refer to as the “NAD,” of the Council of Better Business Bureaus serves as an industry sponsored self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims. The system alsoempowers the NAD to challenge claims that the NAD believes to be misleading, including product benefit claims andpurported sales or other discounts off of “regular” prices. The NAD has no independent enforcement authority. However, itcan refer cases to the FTC for further action. Failures by any of our businesses to comply with rules, consent decrees andapplicable regulations could occur from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary penalties.There are also federal, state, provincial and foreign laws of general application, such as the FTC Act and state, provincial orforeign unfair and deceptive trade practices laws that could potentially be invoked to challenge our advertising, compensationpractices or recruitment techniques. In particular, our recruiting efforts include promotional materials for recruits that describethe potential opportunity available to them if they become promoters or consultants. These materials, as well as our otherrecruiting efforts and those of promoters, are subject to scrutiny by the FTC and enforcement authorities with respect tomisleading statements, including misleading earnings claims made to convince potential new recruits to become promoters orconsultants. If claims or recruiting techniques used by ViSalus or PartyLite or by their promoters or consultants are deemed tobe misleading, it could result in violations of the FTC Act or comparable state, provincial or foreign statutes prohibiting unfairor deceptive trade practices or result in reputational harm, any of which could materially harm our business, financial conditionand results of operations.We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our network marketing and party plan programs could be found notto be in compliance with applicable law or regulations since regulatory requirements concerning direct selling programs donot include “bright line” rules. The failure of our compensation programs to comply with current or newly adoptedregulations over “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes would negatively impact our business in a particular market or ingeneral.ViSalus's and PartyLite's promotional and compensation programs are subject to a number of federal and state regulationsadministered by the FTC and various state agencies in the United States and the equivalent provincial and federal government agencies in Canada and in the other countries in which our businesses operate. We are subject to the risk that, in one or moremarkets, our network marketing and party plan programs could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law orregulations. Regulations applicable to direct selling organizations generally are directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptiveschemes, often referred to as “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes, by ensuring that product sales ultimately are made toconsumers and that advancement within an organization is based on sales of the organization's products rather than investmentsin the organization or other non-retail, non-product sales related criteria. The regulatory requirements concerning networkmarketing and party plan programs do not include “bright line” rules, and therefore, even in jurisdictions where we believe thatour compensation programs are in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we are subject to the risk that these laws orregulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change.The failure of our compensation programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact ourbusiness in a particular market or in general.In general, a “pyramid scheme” is defined as an arrangement in which new participants are required to pay a fee to participatein the organization and then receive compensation primarily for recruiting other persons to participate, either directly orthrough sales of goods or services that are merely disguised payments for recruiting others. Such schemes are illegal because,without legitimate sales of goods or services to support the organization's continued existence, new participants are exposed tothe loss of the fee paid to participate in the scheme. The application of these laws and regulations to a given set of businesspractices is inherently fact-based and, therefore, is subject to interpretation by applicable enforcement authorities. Ourpromoters and consultants are paid by commissions based on sales of our products to bona fide purchasers by those promoters or consultants and by their downline promoters or consultants. For this and other reasons we do not believe that we are in 17Return to Topviolation of any laws regulating pyramid schemes. However, even though we believe that our distribution practices are currently in compliance with, or exempt from, these laws and regulations, there is a risk that a governmental agency or court could disagree with our assessment or that these laws and regulations could change, which may require ViSalus or PartyLite to alter their distribution model or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or result in other costs or fines, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our products are subject to challenge under California Proposition 65.California's Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, also known as Proposition 65, prohibits the discharge orrelease of chemicals known to California to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity, without first giving clear and reasonablewarning. Among other things, the statute covers all consumer goods (including foods and consumer products) sold inCalifornia. Proposition 65 allows private enforcement actions. Reports indicate that hundreds of such actions have beencommenced annually over the past few years against many companies in the consumer products and nutritional supplementbusinesses (challenging, among other things, the lead content of certain ingredients and in certain consumer products) allegingthat their products are contaminated with heavy metals or other compounds that would trigger the warning requirements of theact. While we take appropriate steps to ensure that our products are in compliance with the act, given the nature of this statuteand the extremely low tolerance limits it establishes, there is a risk that we or our manufacturers could be found liable for thepresence of minuscule amounts of a prohibited chemical in our products. We have, from time to time, been the subject ofProposition 65 enforcement actions and may become the target of similar actions in the future. While the amounts we have paid to settle such actions have not had a material impact on our operations, there can be no assurance that any futuresettlements would not be significant.ViSalus's products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other federal and state authorities as foods, and in manyinstances, the subset of foods referred to as “dietary supplements.” Any failure to comply with such regulations, or anydeterminations by the FDA that any of ViSalus's products do not meet adequate safety standards or that its labeling ormarketing claims violate applicable requirements, could prevent ViSalus from marketing some of its products or subject it toadministrative, civil or criminal penalties.ViSalus's products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other federal and state authorities as foods, and in many instances,the subset of foods referred to as “dietary supplements.” The FDA regulates, among other things, the composition, safety,labeling and marketing of conventional foods and dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, herbs and other dietaryingredients for human use). While ViSalus's products as they are currently marketed are not required to obtain pre-marketapproval from the FDA, ViSalus must submit a new dietary ingredient notification to the FDA at least 75 days before the initialmarketing of any dietary supplement that contains a new dietary ingredient. The FDA may find unacceptable the evidence ofsafety for any new dietary supplement ViSalus wishes to market, may determine that a particular dietary supplement oringredient that ViSalus currently markets presents an unacceptable health risk, or may determine that a particular claim orstatement of nutritional support that ViSalus uses to support the marketing of a food or dietary supplement conflicts with FDAregulations regarding labeling claims. Any of these actions could prevent ViSalus from marketing particular products orsubject it to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. The FDA could also require ViSalus to remove or recall a particular product from the market based on safety issues or a failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to ViSalus, including lost revenues from any additional products that it removes or recalls from the market, any of which could be material. Any product recalls or removals could also lead to liability, including consumer class action lawsuits, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects.Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time.These developments could require unanticipated company expenditures to address the reformulation of some products to meetnew standards, recalls or discontinuance of some products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping requirements,increased documentation of the properties of some products, additional or different labeling standards, additional scientificsubstantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. For example, in 2006, Congress enacted legislation toimpose adverse event reporting and record keeping requirements for dietary supplements, and in 2007, the FDA issued a finalrule on current Good Manufacturing Practices, creating new requirements for manufacturing, packaging and storing dietaryingredients and dietary supplements. In the same year, the “Reportable Food Registry,” which we refer to as the “RFR,” wasestablished by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, which requires food companies and other“responsible parties” to file a report through the RFR electronic portal when there is a reasonable probability that the use of, orexposure to, an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. In 2011, the FDA issued a draft guidance document expanding the FDA's previous interpretation of the regulatory requirements surrounding new dietary ingredient notifications and related issues, and Congress enacted new food safety legislation that has increased the FDA's authority over food facilities. ViSalus may not be able to comply with the new requirements or other future legislation, rules or guidance documents without incurring additional expenses, which could be significant.18Return to TopAlthough we intend that ViSalus's products be promoted in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, wecannot ensure that aspects of ViSalus's operations will not be reviewed and challenged by regulatory authorities and ifchallenged, that ViSalus would prevail. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that new laws or regulations, or industry standardsand guidelines, governing weight management, nutritional supplements, functional foods or energy drink mixes will not be enacted in the future, which could result in lost sales.The FTC, state attorneys general, Canadian provincial and federal authorities, state consumer protection agencies in the UnitedStates and similar authorities in foreign jurisdictions regulate fitness, weight loss and nutritional product-advertising claims and require that claims be supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence, where appropriate. The FTC and state attorneys general actively investigate and enforce claims made in weight management and nutritional supplement product advertisements, including for making claims that are too good to be true. ViSalus's marketing materials occasionally include consumer testimonials reporting or depicting specific results achieved by using the product or service generally. Published FTC guidelines state that such claims will be interpreted to mean that the endorser's experience is what others typically can expect to achieve. The FTC requires that advertisers possess adequate proof to back up that claim before making it, or clearly and conspicuously disclose the generally expected performance in the depicted circumstances. The FTC also requires that any material connections between an endorser must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed to consumers at the time of the endorsement.Although we intend that ViSalus's products be promoted in compliance with these and all applicable regulatory requirements inthe markets in which it operates, and specifically intend to avoid making any express weight loss claims in marketing and otherpromotional material provided to ViSalus's independent promoters, we cannot ensure that aspects of ViSalus's operations willnot be reviewed and challenged by regulatory authorities and if challenged, that ViSalus would prevail. Furthermore, wecannot ensure that new laws or regulations, or industry standards and guidelines, governing weight management, nutritionalsupplements, functional foods or energy drink mixes will not be enacted in the future in any of the markets in which ViSalus does business, resulting in lost sales.These same laws, regulations, and government guidelines for enforcement and compliance apply to ViSalus's independentpromoters. While ViSalus trains promoters and attempts to monitor their marketing practices and materials, we cannot ensure that their promotional activities comply with the foregoing prohibitions on unfair and deceptive trade practices. If ViSalus'spromoters are found responsible for violating such restrictions, there can be no assurance that ViSalus could not be heldresponsible for their conduct.ViSalus and its promoters must comply with advertising and labeling laws. If ViSalus or its promoters fail to comply with these laws, then ViSalus and its promoters could be subjected to claims, financial penalties and relabeling requirements.Although the physical labeling of ViSalus's products is not within the control of its promoters, ViSalus's promoters mustnevertheless advertise the products in compliance with the extensive regulations governing the promotion and labeling ofproducts intended for human consumption. ViSalus's products are sold principally as conventional foods and dietarysupplements and are subject to rigorous FDA and related legal regimens limiting the types of health-benefit claims that can bemade for their products. Claims that a product can diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat or prevent a disease, which we refer to as “therapeutic claims,” for example, are not permitted for these products. While ViSalus trains its promoters and attempts to monitor their marketing materials, we cannot ensure that all such materials comply with bans on therapeutic claims. If ViSalus or its promoters fail to comply with these restrictions, then ViSalus and its promoters could be subjected to claims, financial penalties and relabeling requirements. Similarly, the FTC prohibits promoters and endorsers from making any claims for products that are not substantiated with competent and reliable evidence. Although we expect that ViSalus's responsibility for the actions of its promoters in such an instance would be dependent on a determination that ViSalus either controlled or condoned a noncompliant advertising practice, there can be no assurance that ViSalus could not be held responsible for the actions of its promoters.If we do not respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences, we could be vulnerable to increased exposure toexcess and obsolete inventory.The ability of our businesses to respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products or productenhancements and to manage their inventories properly is an important factor in their operations. The nature of their productsand the rapid changes in consumer preferences leave them vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Excess orobsolete inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary toreduce inventory levels. ViSalus’s products are meant for human consumption and have limited shelf lives. Our success depends in part on the ability of our businesses to anticipate and respond to these changes, and they may not respond in a 19Return to Toptimely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. The ability of our businesses to meet future product demand will depend, among other things, upon their success in improving their ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly.Adverse publicity directed at our products, ingredients, promoters, programs or network marketing business model, or thoseof similar companies, could harm us.Companies that market their products to consumers through a network of independent promoters can be the subject of negativecommentary. For example, starting in late 2012 and continuing in 2013, a hedge fund manager publicly raised allegationsregarding the legality of Herbalife's network marketing program and announced that his fund had taken a significant shortposition regarding Herbalife's common shares, leading to intense public scrutiny of Herbalife's business and network marketingand significant volatility in its stock price. We expect that negative publicity will, from time to time, continue to negativelyimpact our business in particular markets and may adversely affect our stock price. This negative commentary can spreadinaccurate or incomplete information about the direct selling industry in general or our products, ingredients, promoters,consultants or programs in particular. The number of our customers and promoters/consultants and our business, financialcondition and results of operations may be significantly affected by the public's perception of us and similar companies. Thisperception is dependent upon opinions concerning:• the safety, quality, effectiveness and taste of our products and ingredients;• the safety, quality, effectiveness and taste of similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies;• our independent sales forces;• our promotional and compensation programs; and• the direct selling business in general, including the operations of other direct selling companies.Adverse publicity concerning any actual or purported failure by our direct selling businesses or their promoters or consultantsto comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, theregulation of our direct selling businesses, the licensing of our products for sale in our target markets or other aspects of ourbusiness, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on ourbusiness and could negatively affect our direct selling businesses' ability to recruit, motivate and retain promoters andconsultants, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue.In addition, adverse publicity concerning any actual or purported concerns about the quality of our products could have anadverse effect on our business. We monitor our product quality and, from time to time, make changes to the ingredients,packaging, fragrance, color and other matters to take into account changes in consumer preferences, opportunities to improvethe quality of our products and other matters. Our failure to maintain the quality of our products would reduce consumerdemand and negatively affect our ability to recruit, motivate and retain promoters and consultants, any of which wouldnegatively impact our sales and earnings.ViSalus may be subject to health-related claims from its customers. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate, could lead tolawsuits or other legal challenges and could negatively impact ViSalus's and our reputation and the market demand for ourproducts.Customers that suffer health problems may allege that ViSalus's products caused or contributed to the injury or ailment. Fromtime to time, customers may make such allegations on social media, which can be difficult to confront, challenge or refute. Inaddition, the perception of the safety, quality, effectiveness and taste of our products and ingredients, as well as similar productsand ingredients distributed by other companies, could be significantly influenced by media attention (including on socialmedia), publicized scientific research or findings, widespread recalls or product liability claims or other publicity concerningour products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether ornot accurate or resulting from the use or misuse of products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or anysimilar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of ViSalus's products or similarproducts, or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their usecould lead to lawsuits or other legal challenges and could negatively impact ViSalus's and our reputation and the marketdemand for our products.We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and harm our business.ViSalus markets products designed for human consumption. PartyLite and Silver Star Brands primarily market products forconsumer use, although some of their products are also intended for human consumption. As such, we may be subject toproduct liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury to consumers, whether from consumption20Return to Topor otherwise. We also may be subjected to product liability claims that relate to the use of candles and claims that our candles and accessories include inadequate instructions as to their uses or inadequate warnings concerning side effects. We cannot ensure that any of our products will never be associated with consumer injury. In addition, many of our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers that also provide raw materials, which prevent us from having full control over the ingredients contained in many of our products.As a marketer of weight-management products, nutritional supplements, functional foods and energy drink mixes, ViSalus may be subjected to product-liability claims, including claims related to the use of these products in an inappropriate manner or by inappropriate consumer groups. Although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and cause us to record a self-insured loss. Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have substantial retentions or deductibles for which we are responsible. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition to the above, any product liability claim brought against any of our businesses, with or without merit, could result inan increase of our product liability insurance rates. Insurance coverage varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain, and wecannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition,such liability claims could cause our consumers to lose confidence in our products and stop purchasing our products, whichwould harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.All of our businesses are subject to risks from increased competition, and our failure to maintain our competitive positionwould harm us.ViSalus's business of marketing and selling weight-management products, nutritional supplements, functional foods and energy drink mixes, PartyLite's business of selling candles and accessories and Silver Star Brands' business of selling a wide variety of consumer products through catalogs and the Internet are highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide markets for these products are highly fragmented, with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. In addition, we anticipate that we will be subject to increasing competition in the future from sellers that utilize electronic commerce. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and sales resources, greater name recognition, larger established customer bases, and better-developed distribution channels than our businesses. Our current or future competitors may be able to develop products that are comparable or superior to those that we offer, offer competitive products at more attractive prices, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends and standards or consumer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than our businesses. For example, ViSalus's Vi-Shape meal replacement product constitutes a significant portion of its sales, and if its competitors develop other weight-management products, nutritional supplements, functional foods or energy drink mixes that become more popular than the ViSalus products, demand for ViSalus's products could decline. Competitors in ViSalus's target product market include Herbalife and retail establishments such as Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig, General Nutrition Centers and retail pharmacies. Competitors in PartyLite's target market include Yankee Candle and numerous retail establishments, including big-box retailers, that sell a wide variety of candles and accessories. Silver Star Brands competes with numerous general merchandise catalogs, online retailers and retail establishments. In addition, because the industries in which our businesses operate are not particularly capital intensive or otherwise subject to high barriers to entry, it is relatively easy for new competitors to emerge to compete with us for promoters, consultants and customers.ViSalus and PartyLite are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of promoters and consultants from other directselling organizations, including those that market weight-management products, nutritional supplements, functional foods and energy drink mixes, candles and home accessories, as well as other types of products. Our competitors for the recruitment of promoters and consultants include a large number of direct selling companies, examples of which include Amway, Avon, Herbalife, Natura, Nature's Sunshine, Nu Skin, Reliv, Shaklee, Tupperware and USANA. Furthermore, the fact that our promoters and consultants may easily enter and exit our programs contributes to the level of competition that we face. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining promoters and consultants through attractive compensation plans, the maintenance of attractive product portfolios and other incentives.If our businesses are unable to compete effectively in their markets, if competition in their markets intensifies or if we are unable to recruit and retain promoters and consultants, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed.A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as our products.21Return to TopRecently, concerns over the global economy, including the recent financial crisis in Europe (including concerns that certainEuropean countries may default in payments due on their national debt) and the resulting economic uncertainty, as well asconcerns over unemployment in the United States and Europe, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, and the availabilityand cost of credit have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the United States and globaleconomies. A continued or protracted downturn in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionaryitems, including all of our products. Factors that could affect consumers' willingness to make such discretionary purchasesinclude general business conditions, levels of unemployment, political uncertainty, energy costs, interest rates and tax rates, theavailability of consumer credit and consumer confidence. A reduction in consumer spending could significantly reduce oursales and leave us with unsold inventory. Our results of operations are significantly affected by our success in increasing sales in our existing markets, as well asopening new markets. As we continue to expand into international markets, our business becomes increasingly subject topolitical, economic, legal and other risks. Changes in these markets could adversely affect our business.PartyLite and ViSalus have a history of expanding into new international markets, although ViSalus has a very short history ofdoing so commensurate with the short history of its business. We believe that our ability to achieve future growth is dependentin part on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be ableto grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis or that new markets will beprofitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can begin marketing in any internationalmarket. Also, before marketing commences in a new country or market, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our productsand sales techniques will be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we mayalso encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures, languages and legal systems from thoseencountered elsewhere. We may be required to reformulate certain of our products before commencing sales in a givencountry. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. Noassurance can be given that we will be able to successfully reformulate our products in any of our current or potentialinternational markets to meet local regulatory requirements or to attract local customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals in new markets, or that we will have sufficient capital to finance our expansion efforts in a timely manner.In markets outside the United States, prior to commencing operations or marketing products, ViSalus may be required to obtainapprovals, licenses, or certifications from a country's regulatory agencies. Approvals, licensing or certifications may beconditioned on reformulation of ViSalus's products for the market or may be unavailable with respect to certain products orproduct ingredients. ViSalus must also comply with local product labeling and packaging regulations that vary amongcountries.In many market areas, other network marketing companies already have significant market penetration which may have theeffect of desensitizing the local population to a new opportunity from ViSalus or PartyLite, or to make it more difficult for us toattract qualified promoters and consultants. Even if ViSalus and PartyLite are able to commence operations in new markets,there may not be a sufficient population of individuals who are interested in direct selling in general or our business models inparticular. We believe our future success will depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate ViSalus's and PartyLite'scompensation plans across all markets where legally permissible. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able toutilize our compensation plans seamlessly in all existing or future markets.We face diverse risks in our international business.We depend on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2013, revenue from outside the United States represented 42% of our total revenue. We expect international sales to continue to represent asubstantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and we plan to expand further into international markets. Due to our reliance on sales to customers outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including:• the acceptability of our products and sales models to international consumers;• the interest in ViSalus's and PartyLite's business, products and compensation programs to prospective overseaspromoters and consultants;• United States and foreign government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions on imports toor from the United States;• foreign government taxes and regulations, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxesimposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to theUnited States;22Return to Top• the laws and policies of the United States, Canada, Australia and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes);• foreign employment and labor laws, regulations and restrictions;• difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and difficulty in maintaining quality control;• adverse fluctuations in world currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any interest rateswap or other hedging activities we undertake;• political instability, natural disasters, health crises, war or events of terrorism;• transportation costs and delays; and• the strength of international economies.Legal actions by ViSalus's or PartyLite's former promoters or consultants or third parties against us could harm ourbusiness.ViSalus and PartyLite monitor and review the compliance of their promoters and consultants with their respective policies andprocedures as well the laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. From time to time, some promoters and consultantsfail to adhere to these policies and procedures. In such cases, ViSalus or PartyLite may take disciplinary action against thatpromoter or consultant based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, which may include, for example, warningsfor minor violations to termination of the relationship for more serious violations. From time to time, we become involved inlitigation with a former promoter or consultant whose relationship has been terminated. We consider this type of litigation to beroutine and incidental to our business. While neither the existence nor the outcome of this type of litigation is typicallymaterial to our business, we may become involved in litigation of this nature that results in a large cash award against us. Ourcompetitors have also been involved in this type of litigation and, in some cases, class actions, where the result has been a largecash award against the competitor. These types of challenges, awards or settlements could provide incentives for similaractions by former promoters or consultants against us in the future. Any such challenge involving us or others in our industrycould harm our business by resulting in fines or damages against us, creating adverse publicity about us or our industry, orhurting our ability to attract and retain promoters, consultants and customers. We believe that compliance by promoters andconsultants with our policies and procedures is critical to the integrity of our business, and, therefore, we will continue to beaggressive in enforcing them. As such, there can be no assurance that this type of litigation will not occur again in the future orresult in an award or settlement that has an adverse effect on our business.Since our businesses rely on independent third parties to manufacture and supply many of their products, if these thirdparties fail to reliably supply products at required levels of quantity and quality, then our business, financial condition andresults of operations would be harmed.All of ViSalus's products are manufactured and supplied by third party manufacturers in the United States based on its formulas(whether owned or licensed). PartyLite manufactures substantially all of its candles, but all of its accessories are manufacturedby third parties, primarily based overseas. All of Silver Star Brands' products are manufactured and supplied by third partymanufacturers, primarily based overseas. If any of the third party manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling tocontinue to provide products in required volumes, at suitable quality levels, or if these suppliers fail to maintain compliancewith regulatory requirements imposed on the manufacturers of food and nutritional supplements, including the FDA's currentgood manufacturing practices, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources.There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. An extendedinterruption in the supply of products would result in loss of sales, which could negatively impact our business, financialcondition and results of operations. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of reliance onthird party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns.If PartyLite is unable to manufacture its candles at required levels of quantity and quality, then our business, financialcondition and results of operations could be harmed.PartyLite manufactures substantially all of its candles. As a result, PartyLite depends upon the uninterrupted and efficientoperation of its manufacturing facilities. Those operations are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure or substandardperformance of equipment, the improper installation, maintenance and operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, andthe need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies. If either of PartyLite's manufacturing facilitieswere to experience a catastrophic loss, it would be expected to disrupt our operations and could result in personal injury orproperty damage, damage relationships with PartyLite's consultants and customers or result in large expenses to repair orreplace the facilities, as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. If PartyLite were to become unable to provideproducts in required volumes and at suitable quality levels, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacementthird party manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources ona timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of candles would result in loss of sales by PartyLite, which could23Return to Topnegatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any actual or perceived degradationof product quality as a result of reliance on third party manufacturers instead of PartyLite for the manufacture of its candlescould have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns.PartyLite's manufacturing facilities are subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling,emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste, and other toxic and hazardousmaterials. PartyLite's manufacturing operations presently do not result in the generation of material amounts of hazardous ortoxic substances. Nevertheless, complying with new or more stringent laws or regulations, or more vigorous enforcement ofcurrent or future policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by us that could have a material adverseeffect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations require us to maintainand comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safetydata regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of those requirements could result in financial penalties and otherenforcement actions and could require us to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. Thecombined costs of curing incidents of non-compliance, resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmentauthorities or of satisfying new legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition orresults of operations.Disruptions to transportation channels that we use to distribute our products may adversely affect us.We may experience disruptions to the transportation channels used to distribute our products, including increased airport andshipping port congestion, lack of transportation capacity, increased fuel expenses and a shortage of manpower. Disruptions inour container shipments may result in increased costs, including the additional use of airfreight to meet demand. Although wehave not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion.Congestion in ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases inshipping costs.Our profitability may be affected by shortages or increases in the cost of raw materials.Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in production requirements,weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. Ingredients for ViSalus'sweight-management products, nutritional supplements, functional foods and energy drink mixes are sourced from a variety of third party suppliers. PartyLite sources petroleum based paraffin wax (which is used to manufacture candles) from several suppliers. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of paraffin, it is possible that fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse effect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of PartyLite's products. In recent years, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin and paper, negatively impacted our profitability. In addition, a number of governmental authorities in the United States and abroad have introduced or are contemplating enacting legal requirements, including emissions limitations, cap and trade systems and other measures to reduce production of greenhouse gases, in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These measures may have an indirect effect on us by affecting the prices of products made from fossil fuels, including paraffin. Given the wide range of potential future climate change regulations and their effects on these raw materials, the potential indirect impact to our operations is uncertain. In addition, climate change might contribute to severe weather in the locations where fossil fuel based raw materials are produced, such as increased hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, which could disrupt the production, availability or pricing of these raw materials. Volatility in the prices of raw materials could increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability. Moreover, we may not be able to implement price increases for products to cover any increased costs, and any price increases we implement may result in lower sales volumes. If our businesses are not successful in managing ingredient costs, if they are unable to increase their prices to cover increased costs or if such price increases reduce their sales volume, then such increases could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have guaranteed ViSalus's obligation to redeem its preferred stock in December 2017, and if we and ViSalus are unableto redeem the preferred stock our ownership in ViSalus may decrease to less than 5%, which could significantly decreaseour sales, earnings or cash flows from operations.In December 2012, in connection with our phased acquisition of ViSalus, ViSalus issued shares of its redeemable convertiblepreferred stock to the minority owners of ViSalus. ViSalus has agreed to redeem all of the shares of preferred stock onDecember 31, 2017, which can be extended with the consent of holders of a majority of the voting power of the preferredstock, for $143.2 million, unless prior to such date ViSalus has made an initial public offering of its common stock with avaluation above a certain threshold. We have guaranteed the performance by ViSalus of its redemption obligation. There can be no assurance that holders of a majority of the voting power of the preferred stock will choose to extend the redemption date beyond December 31, 2017.24Return to TopIn the event that ViSalus does not redeem the preferred stock, each share of preferred stock will become convertible at the holder's sole discretion into 100 shares of common stock of ViSalus. There can be no assurance that any of the holders of the preferred stock will choose to convert the preferred stock into shares of common stock of ViSalus. If all of the preferred stock converted into 100 shares of common stock of ViSalus, our ownership interest in ViSalus would be reduced to approximately 4% of ViSalus, which could significantly decrease our sales, earnings or cash flow from operations.In the event that we and ViSalus do not have the financial resources to redeem the preferred stock on the redemption date, in lieu of converting the preferred stock into shares of common stock of ViSalus, the holders thereof may seek to enforce the redemption obligations through legal proceedings or otherwise.Awards made pursuant to ViSalus's Omnibus Incentive Plan could negatively impact our business, financial condition andresults of operations.ViSalus has awarded restricted stock units and non-qualified stock options to its employees and others that vest over a numberof years and aggregate approximately 15% of the presently outstanding equity of ViSalus. As these awards vest and shares ofViSalus stock (which we refer to collectively as “ViSalus Plan Shares”) are issued under them, our ownership interest inViSalus will be diluted. This dilution could reduce our earnings and cash flows, as well as the amount of cash we receive asand when ViSalus declares dividends. The holders of the ViSalus Plan Shares may “put” some or all of their ViSalus PlanShares to ViSalus (i.e., require ViSalus to purchase them) unless doing so would violate, or be prohibited by, the terms ofBlyth's or ViSalus's lending arrangements or would, in the judgment of ViSalus's board of directors, materially adversely affectViSalus. Should the holders of the ViSalus Plan Shares exercise their put rights, such exercise could reduce our earnings andcash flows as well as the amount of cash available for ViSalus to declare dividends. We and ViSalus will rely on anindependent third party appraiser to determine the value of the ViSalus stock at the time the “put” is exercised by the holders ofthe ViSalus Plan Shares. The third party appraiser will determine that value based on several valuation methodologies of itschoosing, which may result in a value of the ViSalus stock that would exceed the price at which such stock would trade ifViSalus were a separately traded public company.Because of the put right, ViSalus's awards of restricted stock units and stock options may be accounted for as liability awards,the fair value of which is measured at each reporting period. This means that ViSalus may be required to record additionalexpenses (or expense reductions) in future periods for increases (or decreases) in the fair value of these awards. The fair valueof these awards is based on ViSalus's future operating performance and may change significantly if ViSalus's sales forecastsand operating profits exceed or fall short of projections. Changes in the value of these awards could negatively impact ourresults of operations and could cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period. This may impair our ability topredict financial results accurately, which could reduce the market price of our common stock.If we lose the services of key employees, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed.We depend on the continued services of Robert B. Goergen, our Chairman of the Board; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer and President PartyLite Worldwide; and Robert H. Barghaus, our Chief Financial Officer, as well as the continued services of Ryan Blair, the Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of ViSalus, and Blake Mallen, the Chief Marketing Officer and co-founder of ViSalus. In addition, ViSalus and PartyLite depend upon the continued services of the other members of their current senior management teams, including the relationships that they have developed with ViSalus's and PartyLite's senior independent promoters and consultants. The loss or departure of these key employees could negatively impact ViSalus's and PartyLite's relationship with their senior independent promoters and consultants and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these key employees does not remain with us, our business could suffer. The loss of such key employees could negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our continued success will also be dependent upon our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified personnel to meet our needs. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may require an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the necessary breadth of skills and experience.We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our promoters and consultants.Earnings of promoters and consultants are subject to taxation, and, in some instances, legislation or governmental regulationsimpose obligations on ViSalus and PartyLite to collect or pay taxes, such as value-added taxes, and to maintain appropriaterecords. In addition, we may be subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of new liabilities being imposed for social security andsimilar taxes with respect to promoters or consultants. If local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws andregulations change to require ViSalus or PartyLite to treat promoters or consultants as employees, or if promoters or consultantsare deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather25Return to Topthan independent contractors or agents under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social chargesand related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus related assessments and penalties.ViSalus and PartyLite outsource some of their event planning to third parties, which exposes them to the risk that thoseevent planners will not produce events that meet ViSalus's and PartyLite's standards, as well as the standards of theircurrent and prospective promoters, consultants and customers.ViSalus and PartyLite hold periodic and annual events where they, among other things, provide training to their promoters andconsultants, introduce new products and changes to their compensation plans, recognize the achievements of their promoters,consultants and customers, and otherwise introduce their business to prospective promoters, consultants and customers.ViSalus and PartyLite currently outsource some of the planning for these events to third parties. Accordingly, ViSalus andPartyLite have less control over their events than if they were planned and operated exclusively by their employees. If theseevent planners do not produce ViSalus's annual Vitality, semi-annual National Success Training and other events andPartyLite's annual events at the expected levels of quality, ViSalus and PartyLite may fail to meet the expectations of theircurrent and prospective promoters, consultants and customers.There can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable tous, successfully integrate acquired operations or that companies we acquire will perform as anticipated.We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions in addition to internal growth. In the past several years, we increased ourownership in ViSalus, but did not complete any other acquisitions. There can be no assurances that we will identify suitableacquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or be able to finance acquisitions. We also mayencounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to theseacquisitions or in managing strategic investments. Additionally, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits weanticipate when we first enter into a transaction. We will not be required to submit acquisitions for stockholder approval,except in certain situations that have not applied to any of our acquisitions and that we do not expect to apply to any futureacquisitions. In addition, accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expensecertain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings duringperiods in which we acquire new businesses. Furthermore, covenants in the indenture that govern our 6.00% Senior Notes due 2017 limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to engage in acquisitions.The covenants in the indenture that governs our 6.00% Senior Notes due 2017 limits our operating and financial flexibility.On May 10, 2013, we completed the private sale of $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Senior Notes due 2017.The 6.00% Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture that contains affirmative and negative covenants that, amongother things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt, grant negative pledges to other creditors,prepay subordinated indebtedness and certain other indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions on capital stock,redeem or repurchase preferred and capital stock, make loans, investments and other restricted payments, engage inacquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, sell assets, create liens on assets to secure debt, or effect a consolidation ormerger or to sell all, or substantially all, of our assets, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions set forth inthe indenture. The indenture limits the dividends that we pay on our common stock, repurchases of our outstanding commonstock, repurchases of ViSalus Plan Shares and other restricted payments to an amount not exceeding the sum of 50% of our net income on a cumulative basis from July 1, 2013 (the first day of the fiscal quarter beginning after we issued the 6.00% Senior Notes) until the last day of the fiscal quarter preceding any restricted payments (provided that if we shall have a cumulative net loss, then 100% of such loss), the net cash proceeds from issuances of common stock and other items, subject to conditions, qualifications and exceptions set forth in the indenture.The turmoil in the financial markets in recent years could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increasethe cost of financing our operations and investments and could result in additional impairments to our businesses.United States and global credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years, making it difficult formany businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, in recent years equity markets have experiencedrapid and wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may bemore difficult to obtain financing for our businesses. In addition, while our debt is not currently being rated, our futureborrowing costs could be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies if we choose toraise capital with public debt. A decrease in these ratings by the agencies would likely increase our cost of future borrowingsand/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. In the event current market conditions continue we will more thanlikely be subject to higher interest costs than we are currently incurring and may be required to provide security to guaranteesuch borrowings. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain unfunded borrowings in that amount, which may require us to26Return to Topseek other forms of financing, such as term debt, at higher interest rates and with additional expenses. In addition, we may besubject to future impairments of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventories, property, plant and equipment, goodwilland other intangibles, if the valuation of these assets or businesses declines.If our businesses fail to protect their intellectual property, then our ability to compete could be negatively affected.All of our businesses attempt to protect their intellectual property rights, both in the United States and elsewhere, through acombination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. The failure by our businesses to obtain or maintain adequate protection of their intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. Even if granted, the patents could be challenged,invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningfulprotection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe on our patents or that wewill have adequate resources to enforce our patents. We cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of formulas or products covered by any patent application we may make or that we will be the first to file patent applications on such formulas or products. Because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, there is also a risk that we couldadopt a formula without knowledge of a pending patent application, which would infringe a third party patent once that patentis issued.We also rely on unpatented proprietary information related to some of our formulas and products. It is possible that others willindependently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to these unpatented formulas or products. InCanada, the medicinal ingredients in ViSalus's products must be disclosed by quantity. We also possess trade secret rights inour promoter/consultant and customer lists and related contact information. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietaryinformation, we currently require most of our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentialityagreements. We cannot ensure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for any of our trade secrets, knowhowor other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable tomaintain the proprietary and/or secret nature of our formulas and products, we could be materially adversely affected. Further, loss of protection for our promoter, consultant and customer lists could harm our ability to recruit and retain promoters,consultants or customers, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names.We own most of the material trademarks and trade-name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing anddistribution of our products in the markets where those products are sold. We rely on these trademarks, trade names, tradedress and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied toregister many of these trademarks. We may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade-name protection against thirdparties or otherwise successfully defending against a challenge to our trademarks or trade names. In addition, the laws ofother countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In the event that our trademarks or trade names are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, remove products from the market or pay a settlement, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands and building goodwill in these new brands, trademarks and trade names. ViSalus has agreed not to use “ViSalus” as a trademark, name or product name outside of North America. Further, we cannot ensure that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, pass off themselves or their goods and services as being ours or associated with ours or otherwise depreciate the value of the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. Infringement of our trademarks or trade names, passing off by a competitor or depreciating the goodwill associated with our trademarks could impair the goodwill associated with our brands and harm our reputation, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations.We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties' intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual propertyinfringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing,selling or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand ourproducts or packaging, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensingagreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, ifrequired, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.We depend upon our information-technology systems, and if we experience interruptions in these systems, our business,financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.27Return to TopOur businesses are increasingly dependent on information-technology systems to operate their websites, communicate withtheir independent promoters and consultants, calculate compensation due to their promoters and consultants, processtransactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations,including information technology that they license from third parties. There is no guarantee that our businesses will continue tohave access to these third-party information-technology systems after the current license agreements expire, and if they do notobtain licenses to use effective replacement information-technology systems, our business, financial condition and results ofoperations could be adversely affected.Previously, our businesses have experienced interruptions resulting from upgrades to certain of their information-technologysystems that temporarily reduced the effectiveness of their operations. Our information-technology systems depend on globalcommunication providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that haveexperienced system failures in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss,telecommunication failures and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems arevulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. Theoccurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information-technology systems and inhibit internal operations,the ability to provide service to our promoters, consultants and customers or their ability to access our information systems. If we are unable to effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results.The Internet plays a major role in our interaction with customers and promoters and consultants. The disruptions described above may make our websites and online services, including but not limited to Vi-Net, unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. Risks such as changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy regulations are key concerns related to the Internet. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties could reduce sales, increase costs and damage our relationships.Management uses information systems to support decision-making and to monitor business performance. We may fail togenerate accurate financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management. Failure toadopt systematic procedures to maintain quality information-technology general controls could impact management's decision making and performance monitoring, which could disrupt our business. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controlssuch as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operateour business could be limited.As a result of our online sales, we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including personal information. If we fail to prevent or mitigate data loss, security breaches or the circumvention of our security measures, our systems could allow data loss or misappropriation of confidential, proprietary and/or personal information - including that of third parties such as promoters, consultants and customers collected in our online businesses - or could interrupt our operations, damage our computers or otherwise harm our reputation and business. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect this information and prevent data loss and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition we rely on third party technology, systems and services in certain aspects of our business, including storage encryption and authentication technology to securely transmit confidential information. These third party systems also cannot provide absolute security. Our storage of user and employee data subjects us to a number of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing the collection, storage, handling or sharing of personal data.We collect, handle, store and disclose personal data collected from users of our websites and mobile applications, as well as ouremployees, promoters and consultants, and potential and actual purchasers of our products. In this regard, we are subject to anumber of U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. The FTC, state attorneys general and foreign data protection and consumer protection authorities actively investigate and enforce compliance with laws and regulations governing fair information practices, as they are evolving in practice and being tested in courts. These laws, including the FTC Act, could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business, particularly if we are deemed to engage in unfair or deceptive trade practices with regard to our collection, storage, handling or sharing of personal data. Risks attendant upon our conduct of business on the Internet and data collection practices may involve user or employee privacy, data protection, electronic contracts, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. The adoption of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations regarding the storage, handling, collection and sharing of personal data may result in significant compliance costs or otherwise negatively impact our business. Our promoters and consultants also collect, store, handle and process personal data. A violation of law or fair information practices by a promoter or consultant could cause us financial or reputational harm.28Return to TopUser growth and engagement on mobile devices depend upon the effective operation of mobile operating systems, networksand standards that we do not control.ViSalus relies on its Vi-Net Mobile application suite, which allows promoters and customers to access their Vi- Net accountsand place orders for customers on their smartphones. There is no guarantee that the Vi-Net Mobile application suite willcontinue to be interoperable with popular mobile operating systems that ViSalus does not control, such as Android, Blackberryand iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade ViSalus's products' functionality or give preferential treatment tocompetitive products could adversely affect Vi-Net Mobile application suite usage. Additionally, in order to deliver high qualitymobile products, it is important that ViSalus's products work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems,networks and standards that ViSalus does not control. ViSalus may not be successful in developing relationships with keyparticipants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networksor standards. If it is more difficult for ViSalus's users to access and use the Vi-Net Mobile application suite on their mobiledevices, or if ViSalus's users choose not to access or use the Vi-Net Mobile application suite on their mobile devices or usemobile products that do not offer access to the Vi-Net Mobile application suite, ViSalus's customer and independent promotergrowth and retention could be harmed.Our business is susceptible to fraud, including credit card and debit card fraud.Our customers, promoters and consultants typically pay for their orders with debit or credit cards. We have been the victim ofcredit card fraud, and our reputation, business and results of operations could be negatively impacted if we experience creditcard and debit card fraud. Failure to adequately detect and avoid fraudulent credit card and debit card transactions could causeour businesses to lose their ability to accept credit cards or debit cards as forms of payment and/or result in charge-backs of thefraudulently charged amounts and/or significantly decrease revenues. Furthermore, credit card and debit card fraud may lessencustomers', promoters' and consultants' willingness to purchase products. For this reason, such failure could have a materialadverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our financial results.Our effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors,including:• the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;• adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;• changes in available tax credits;• changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;• the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities;• the non-deductibility of certain expenditures for tax purposes;• changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; and• penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions.A substantial amount of our deferred tax assets include foreign tax credits. We reduce deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, some portion or all of the deferred tax assets are unlikely to be realized. Recording of valuation allowances includes estimates and therefore involves inherent uncertainty. We may also be required to record valuation allowances in the future, and our future results and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are required to do so. We may also be affected by future tax regulatory changes since the recordation of deferred tax assets and valuation allowances have been made based on the currently-effective tax regulations.We do not collect sales or consumption taxes in some states.U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales taxes with respect to remotesales. However, an increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose obligations on out-of state retailers to collect taxes on their behalf. On May 6, 2013, the U.S. Senate passed legislation that could require Internetretailers to collect sales taxes for state and local governments. The legislation would allow states to force online retailers withmore than $1.0 million in annual out-of-state sales to collect sales taxes from all customers and remit those taxes back to stateand local governments. The adoption of remote sales tax collection legislation would result in the imposition of sales taxes andadditional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on us. Asuccessful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries requiring us to collect taxes where we do not do so could result29Return to Topin substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest.Since our periodic results of operations may fluctuate, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors orsecurities analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline.Our periodic results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our periodicresults of operations may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including those listed below, many of which are outside of ourcontrol:• demand for and market acceptance of our products;• our ability to recruit, retain and motivate promoters, consultants and customers;• the timing and success of introductions of new products by us or our competitors;• awards made pursuant to ViSalus's Omnibus Incentive Plan;• the strength of the economy;• changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;• competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors;• the impact of seasonality on our business;• the international expansion of our operations; and• the timing of our events, including ViSalus's annual Vitality event and PartyLite's national conferences.These factors, among others, make business forecasting difficult, may cause quarter to quarter fluctuations in our results ofoperations and may impair our ability to predict financial results accurately, which could reduce the market price of ourcommon stock. Therefore, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter or year as an indication of future performance.Furthermore, period to period comparisons of our results of operations may not be as meaningful for our company as they maybe for other public companies.Our business units' profitability could be adversely affected by increased mailing, printing and shipping costs.Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. Future additionalincreases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce Silver Star Brands' profitability to the extent that it is unableto pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number andsize of certain catalog circulations. The sales volume and profitability of each of our business units could be affected by increased costs to ship our products.The operation of Silver Star Brands' credit program, including higher than expected rates of customer defaults, couldadversely affect Silver Star Brands' sales and earnings and impact its cash flow from operations.Silver Star Brands allows some of its customers to purchase products and pay for them with monthly payments over time,which impacts Silver Star Brands' working capital requirements and cash flow from operations. Although customers areselected and dollar limits on their purchases under the program are set using parameters that seek to ensure that most customerswill be able to make the monthly payments under the program, some customers default on their obligations under the programand there is a risk that defaults may occur in larger than anticipated amounts. In addition the program may become subject toregulatory regimes including, but not limited to, regulations that might be issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.The operation of the credit program and the application of such regulatory regimes or changes to them, if either occurs, may affect Silver Star Brands' sales and/or financial performance.Our stock price may be affected by speculative trading, including by those shorting our stock.As of February 14, 2014, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) reported a short interest of approximately 82.3% of ourpublic float, which was the most heavily shorted stock as a percentage of public float on the NYSE. As of December 31, 2013,we were the most heavily shorted stock as a percentage of public float in the S&P 1500. It is possible that the NYSE shortinterest reporting system does not fully capture the total short interest and that it could be larger. Due to our limited publicfloat, we are vulnerable to investors taking a “short position” in our common stock, which is likely to have a depressing effecton the price of our common stock and add increased volatility to our trading market. Short sellers expect to make a profit if ourcommon stock declines in value, and their actions and their public statements may cause volatility in our stock price. Theexistence of such a significant short interest position may lead to continued volatility. The volatility of our stock may cause thevalue of a stockholder's investment to decline rapidly.Our stock price has been volatile, has a small public float and is subject to various market conditions.30Return to TopThe trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Due to the large ownership of our common stockby Robert B. Goergen and his affiliates, we have a relatively small public float compared to the number of our sharesoutstanding. Accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which investors' interest in our common stock will provide an activeand liquid trading market.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports aboutour business, our share price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industryanalysts may publish about us. We are not currently followed by securities or industry analysts, and there can be no assurancethat any analysts will begin to follow us. In the event that securities or industry analysts begin to cover us, we will not haveany control over them or the reports that they may issue. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates in thefuture or one or more of the analysts who cover us at such time downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, ourshare price would likely decline. Since we are not currently followed by analysts, we do not have significant visibility in thefinancial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. If analysts begin to cover us and one ormore of such analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, our share price or tradingvolume may decline. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts andinvestors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially.If we fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the market may have reduced confidence in ourreported financial information.We must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy therequirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will continue to perform the documentation andevaluations needed to comply with Section 404. If during this process our management identifies one or more materialweaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective,which may cause market participants to have reduced confidence in our reported financial condition.31Return to TopItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.