Item 1A. Risk Factors. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS There are factors, many beyond the Company’s control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of the Company. Some of these factors are described below in the sections titled “Company Factors” and “Industry Factors,” however, many are described in the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company Factors The Company’s accounting policies and estimates are critical components of the Company’s presentation of its financial statements. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different than amounts previously estimated. Management has identified several accounting policies and estimates as being critical to the presentation of the Company’s financial statements. The Company’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management may select an accounting policy which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Company’s reporting different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These policies are described under Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and relate to the following: · TRS allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses · Banking segment allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses · Mortgage servicing rights · Income tax accounting · Goodwill and other intangible assets · Impairment of investment securities Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company’s financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Recently, FASB has proposed new accounting standards related to fair value accounting and accounting for leases that could materially change the Company’s financial statements in the future. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised sta ndard retroactively; resulting in the Company’s restating prior period financial statements. Consumer Financial Protection Agency - In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law. Among other items, this act created the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have authority to regulate companies that provide consumer financial services. The Company is regularly refining its consumer financial services and developing new products and services or operations to address recent or anticipated legislative and regulatory changes. Some of these anticipated legislative and regulatory changes may result in, among other things, the Company reducing fees to consumers, implementing additional disclosure requirements, or eliminating products such as RALs, altogether. The Company could incur additional operating co sts which could reduce overall product profitability and lead to the Company exiting certain consumer products. The Company generally cannot estimate what effect, if any, operational changes it would make in response to legislative and regulatory changes may have on the Company’s financial results until the Company is able to develop legal and financially viable alternative products and services. 31 The Company’s lines of business and products not typically associated with Traditional Banking expose the Company’s earnings to additional risks and uncertainties. In addition to Traditional Banking and Mortgage Banking products, the Company provides Refund Anticipation Loans (“RALs”). The following details specific risk factors related to these lines of business: · TRS represents a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the business, it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. Tax Refund Solutions (“TRS”) offers bank products to facilitate the payment of tax refunds for customers that electronically file their tax returns. The Company is one of only a few financial institutions in the U.S. that provides this service to taxpayers. Under this program, the taxpayer may receive a RAL or an Electronic Refund Check or Electronic Refund Deposit (“ERC/ERD” or “AR/ARD”). In return, the Company charges a fee for the service. During the year ended December 31, 2010, net income from the Company’s TRS business operating segment accounted for approximately 68% of the Company’s total net income. Various governmental and consumer groups have, from time to time, questioned the fairness of the RAL program and have accused this industry of charging excessive/usurious rates of interest, via the fee, and engaging in predatory lending practices. In addition, with the loss of the DI from the IRS, various governmental regulators are questioning the overall safety and soundness of the RAL program going forward. Consumer groups have also claimed that customers are not adequately advised that a RAL is a loan product and that alternative, less expensive means of obtaining tax refund proceeds may be available. Actions of these groups and others could result in regulatory, governmental or legislative action or material litigation against the Company. Exiting this line of business by RB&T, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would significantly reduce the Company’s earnings. · On February 10, 2011, RB&T received a Notice of Charges for an Order to Cease and Desist and Notice of Hearing from the FDIC (the “Notice”). The proceeding commenced by this Notice could result in an order by the FDIC that RB&T immediately cease offering RALS. Such an order, if entered, could become effective before the beginning of the first quarter 2012 tax season. RALs represent a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated this product, it would materially negatively impact the earnings of the Company. Net income associated with RALs represented approximately 45% of the TRS segment’s net income for 2010. The Notice contends that RB&T’s practice of originating RALs without the benefit of the DI from the IRS is unsafe and unsound. As part of the process initiated by the Notice, RB&T is entitled to a hearing before an ALJ appointed by the FDIC. The Notice set RB&T’s hearing at 60 days from the date of service of the Notice or on such date and at such place as may be set by the ALJ. As part of the hearing process, the ALJ will take evidence on the items specified in the Notice and make a recommendation of findings of fact to the FDIC Board of Directors, which may accept or reject the ALJ’s recommendation. There is no statutory timeline in which the ALJ must make a recommendation to the FDIC, but the recommendation is generally due 45 days after the hearing-related matters are concluded. The FDIC Board of Directors would have 90 days after the date of the ALJ’s recommendation, or argument before the FDIC Board, to render a decision. In th e case of an adverse decision, RB&T would have the right to appeal the resulting order to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Filing an appeal would not operate as a stay of the order. Discontinuation of the RAL product, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would have a material adverse impact to the Company’s overall earnings. · Republic’s two larger banking competitors in the tax refund industry announced their exit from that line of business during 2010, which could increase public and regulatory pressure for RB&T to exit the business. During 2010, the two larger banking competitors to RB&T within this line of business announced they were exiting the business and would not provide products for the first quarter 2011 tax season. Based on limited information available, management believes that one of the two institutions exited this business line due to the burden of complying with new regulatory product offering guidelines, anticipated changes in consumer protection guidelines and on-going regulatory pressure combined with the immateriality of this line of business to its overall results of operation. According to printed reports, RB&T’s other large compet itor, which had previously announced it would voluntarily exit the tax business in 2013, exited this business line in late 2010 due to a regulatory mandate that it could no longer offer RALs. RB&T’s management believes that these chains of events could dramatically increase the level of public and regulatory scrutiny RB&T receives in this line of business. 32 Exiting this line of business by RB&T, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would significantly reduce the Company’s earnings. · During February 2011, Republic’s two remaining competitors in the tax business that offered RALs announced that they would not offer RALs beyond the 2011 calendar year. This action left RB&T as the only bank remaining in the tax industry with plans to offer RALs beyond the 2011 calendar year, further increasing public and regulatory pressure for RB&T to discontinue the RAL product. Discontinuation of the RAL product, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would have a material adverse impact to the Company’s overall earnings. · Republic’s ERC and ERD products represent a significant business risk and if the Company can no longer offer RALs it could have a material adverse effect on its ERC and ERD product volumes and profits. In addition to the reduction in RAL net income resulting from the discontinuation of the RAL product, RB&T faces potential direct competition for ERC/ERD market share from independently-owned processing groups partnered with banks. Independent processing groups that are unable to offer RAL products have historically been at a competitive disadvantage to banks who could offer RALs. With the receipt of the Notice from the FDIC, RB&T may not be able to originate RALs beyond the current 2011 calendar year. Without the ability to originate RALs, RB&T would most likely face increased competition in the ERC/ERD marketplace. In addition to a potent ial loss of volume resulting from additional competitors, RB&T would also likely incur substantial pressure on its profit margin for its ERC/ERD products as well. Reduced ERC/ERD volume or a decrease in profitability of the ERC/ERD products would have a material adverse impact to the Company’s overall earnings. · The TRS business operating segment represents a significant operational risk, and if the Company were unable to properly service the business, or grow the business, it could materially impact the earnings of the Company. Continued growth in this business operating segment requires continued increases in technology and employees to service the new business. In order to process the new business, the Company must implement and test new systems, as well as train new employees. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its TRS business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management and other systems. Significant operational problems could cause the Compan y to incur higher than normal credit losses. Significant operational problems could also cause a material portion of the Company’s tax-preparer base to switch to a competitor to process their bank product transactions, significantly reducing the Company’s projected revenue without a corresponding decrease in expenses. · RALs represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and if the Company fails to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, it could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters relating to the offering of RALs. Failure to comply with disclosure requirements such as Regulation B (Fair Lending) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) or with laws relating to the permissibility of interest rates and fees charged, could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also expose the Company to additional litigation risk and civil monetary penalties. · RALs represent a significant liquidity, or funding, risk. Significantly overestimating or underestimating the Company’s liquidity or funding needs for the following first quarter’s tax season could have a material negative impact on the Company’s overall earnings. Funding for RAL liquidity requirements may also cost more than the Company’s current estimates and/or historical experience. The Company’s liquidity risk increases significantly during the first quarter of each year due to the RAL program. The Company has committed to its electronic filer and tax-preparer base that it will make RALs available to their customers under the terms of its contracts with them. This requires the Company to estimate liquidity, or funding needs for the RAL program, well in advance of the tax season. If management materially overestimates the need for funding during the tax season, a significant expense could be incurred without an offsetting revenue stream. If management materially underestimates its funding needs during the tax season, the Company could experience a significant shortfall of cash needed to fund RALs and could potentially be required to stop or reduce its RAL originations. 33 RALs represent a significant credit risk, and if the Company is unable to collect a significant portion of its RALs in tax seasons beyond the 2011 calendar year, it would materially, negatively impact the earnings of the Company. There is credit risk associated with a RAL because the funds are disbursed to the customer prior to the Company receiving the customer’s refund from the IRS. During the previous five years at TRS, net credit losses related to RALs originated within a given calendar year have ranged from a low of 0.36% to a high of 1.02% of total RALs originated (including retained and securitized RALs). The Company collects substantially all of its payments related to RALs from the IRS. Losses generally occur on RALs when the Company does not receive payment from the IRS due to a number of reasons, such as IRS revenue protection strategies including audits of returns, errors in the tax return, tax return fraud and tax debts not previously disclosed to the Company during its underwriting process. Although the Company’s underwriting takes these factors into consideration during the loan approval process, if the IRS significantly alters its revenue protection strategies for a given tax season or the Company is incorrect in its underwriting assumptions, the Company could experience higher loan loss provisions above those from previous tax seasons. The provision for loan losses is a significant component of the TRS segment’s o verall earnings. A lower than acceptable level of profit in the TRS segment could cause the Company to exit this line of business. · A significant portion of the Company’s RAL, ERC and ERD volume and revenue is derived from two third party relationships. The loss of either of these relationships without replacing their volume, or a significant unplanned reduction in demand for their tax services, would materially, negatively impact the Company’s operations. Approximately 34% of the Company’s 2010 TRS segment revenue was derived from JH with another 29% from Liberty. In December 2009, the Company signed three year agreements with each of these tax service providers. In December 2010, the Company amended its agreement with JH to, among other things, extend the term of the agreement until October 2015. Under certain specific circumstances, however, each provider could exit their contract with the Company. In addition, the tax preparation industry is highly competitive and the potential exists that these firms could lose clients to competitors which do not offer TRS products. A loss of business by Republic under either of these circumstances would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings. · The IRS plans to explore the possibility of providing a new tool for the first quarter 2012 tax filing season to give taxpayers a mechanism to use a portion of their tax refund to pay for the services of a professional tax preparer. This product would likely present direct competition for the Bank’s ERC and ERD products, which could significantly negatively impact the Company’s earnings from these products. Approximately 55% of the TRS segment’s net income is derived from ERC and ERD products. Competition to these products from the IRS could substantially reduce demand for Republic’s product offering resulting in a substantial negative impact to the TRS segment’s earnings. For additional discussion regarding TRS, see the following sections: · Part I Item 1 “Business” · Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:” o “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” o “Recent Developments” o “Overview” o “Results of Operations” o “Financial Condition” · Part II Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:” o Footnote 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” o Footnote 3 “Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses” o Footnote 4 “Securitization” o Footnote 9 “Deposits” o Footnote 22 “Segment Information” o Footnote 23 “Regulatory Matters” 34 RB&T is subject to a Cease and Desist Order (the “Order”) from the FDIC. The failure to comply with this Order, or additional corrective actions, could result in significant penalties and/or additional sanctions. RB&T and the FDIC agreed to an Order dated February 27, 2009, which cites insufficient oversight of RB&T’s consumer compliance programs, most notably in RB&T’s RAL program. The Order requires increased compliance oversight of the RAL program by RB&T’s management and board of directors that is subject to review and approval by the FDIC. Under the Order, RB&T must increase its training and audits of its electronic refund originator (“ERO”) partners, who make RB&T’s tax products available to taxpaye rs across the nation. In addition, various components of the Order require RB&T to meet certain implementation, completion and reporting timelines, including the establishment of a compliance management system to appropriately assess, measure, monitor and control third party risk and ensure compliance with consumer laws. If the FDIC determines that RB&T is not in compliance with the Order, it has the authority to issue more restrictive enforcement actions. These enforcement actions could include significant penalties and/or requirements regarding the tax business which could significantly, negatively impact this segment’s profitability and cause the Company to exit the business altogether. Deterioration in the quality of the Company’s Traditional Banking loan portfolio may result in additional charge-offs which will adversely impact Republic’s operating results. Over the previous four years, the Company has experienced some deterioration in the quality of its loan portfolio. Traditional banking net charge-offs to average loans outstanding were 0.51% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 0.34%, 0.26%, and 0.10% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Non-performing loans to total loans outstanding were 1.30% at December 31, 2010 compared to 1.90%, 0.58% and 0.40% at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Delinquent loans to total loans outstanding were 1.24% at December 31, 2010 compared to 1.98%, 1.07% and 0.69% at Dece mber 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Despite the various measures implemented by Republic to address the current economic situation, there may be further deterioration in the Company’s loan portfolio which will require additional charge-offs. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company owns four investment securities which the Company believes have an elevated level of credit risk and are extremely illiquid. Nationally, residential real estate values have declined significantly since 2007. These declines in value, coupled with the reduced ability of certain homeowners to refinance or repay their residential real estate obligations, have led to elevated delinquencies and losses in residential real estate loans. Many of these loans have previously been securitized and sold to investors as private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage-related securities. The Company owned and continues to own four private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage-related security with an amortized cost of $6.3 million at December 31, 2010. For one of these securities, the Company has fully reserved for its projected losses through OTTI charges. The Company has partially written off the principal associated with this security, as a portion of its losses were passed through by the servicer/trustee. Further deterioration in economic conditions and/or new or additional downgrades from applicable rating agencies could cause the Company to record additional impairment charges up to $6.3 million in the future. See additional discussion regarding these impairment charges under Footnote 2 “Investment Securities” of Part II Item 8 “Financial Statement and Supplementary Data.” Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability. The Company’s primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The Company expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, earnings may be negatively affected. The Company’s asset-liability management strategy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Overall, interest rates generally have decreased since fiscal year 2008. When interest rates begin to rise again, the Company’s interest income could rise at a slower pace than the Company’s interest expense and the fair value of the Company’s assets could decrease at a faster pace than the increase in the fair value of interest-bearing liabilities. These circumstances would cause a decline in the Company’s net interest income and a reduction in the economic value of the Company’s shareholders’ equity. A continued stable interest rate environment could reduce profitability. From 2007 through early 2009, net interest income within the Traditional Banking segment benefitted from low short-term interest rates in combination with a “steep” yield curve and an increase in average-earning assets. The month-to-month improvement in this benefit when comparing to the same month in the previous year, however, began to decrease in late 2008, as the Company could no longer lower the rate on many of its interest-bearing liabilities, while its higher yielding interest-earning assets continued to paydown and reprice lower. At December 31, 2010, this month to month comparison was in a significant negative position. An on-going stable interest rate environment will cause the Company& #8217;s interest earning assets to continue to reprice into lower yielding assets without the ability for the Company to offset the decline in interest income through a reduction in its cost of funds. The continued contraction in the Company’s net interest margin will cause net income to decrease. The overall magnitude of the decrease in net interest income will depend on the period of time that the current interest rate environment remains. 35 Mortgage Banking activities could be adversely impacted by increasing long-term interest rates. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the gain on sale of loans, loan origination fees and loan servicing fees, which account for a significant portion of Mortgage Banking income. A decline in market interest rates generally results in higher demand for mortgage products, while an increase in rates generally results in reduced demand. Generally, if demand increases, Mortgage Banking income will be positively impacted by more gains on sale; however, the valuation of existing mortgage servicing rights will decrease and may result in a significant impairment. Moreover, a decline in demand for Mortgage Banking products could also adversely impact other programs/products such as home equity lending, title insurance commissions and service charges on deposit accounts. The Company’s stock generally has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a stockholder’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly sell large numbers of shares of Republic’s stock without causing wide price fluctuations. Republic’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, such as actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation, regulatory actions or changes in government regulations, among other factors. A low average daily stock trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. The market price for the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of the Company’s common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate include: · Variations in the Company’s and its competitors’ operating results; · Changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; · Announcements by the Company or its competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships; · Additions or departure of key personnel; · Actual or anticipated quarterly or annual fluctuations in operating results, cash flows and financial condition; · The announced exiting of or significant reductions in material lines of business within the Company; · Changes or proposed changes in banking laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations · Events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to the Company; · Developments relating to regulatory examinations · Speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to the Company’s reputation or the financial services industry; · Future issuances or re-sales of equity or equity-related securities, or the perception that they may occur · General conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; · Domestic and international economic factors unrelated to the Company’s performance · The presence or absence of short selling of the Company’s common stock; and · Future sales of the Company’s common stock or debt securities. In addition, in recent years, the stock market, in general, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This is due, in part, to investors’ shifting perceptions of the effect of changes and potential changes in the economy on various industry sectors. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their performance or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock, notwithstanding its actual or anticipated operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, including prevailing interest rates, other economic conditions, operating performance and in vestor perceptions of the outlook for the Company specifically and the banking industry in general. There can be no assurance about the level of the market price of the Company’s common stock in the future or that you will be able to resell your shares at times or at prices you find attractive. 36 An investment in the Company’s Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company’s Chairman, President, and Vice Chairman hold substantial amounts of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes. This group generally votes together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. These actions may include, for example, the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to corporate documents, the approval of mergers, sales of assets and the continuation of the Company as a registered company with obligations to file periodic reports and other filings with the SEC. Cons equently, other stockholders’ ability to influence Company actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. The Company cannot assure you that the majority stockholders will vote their shares in accordance with minority stockholder interests. The Company may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future for growth, investment or strategic acquisitions. The Company cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, it may not be able to grow or make strategic acquisitions or investments. The Company’s funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support future growth. The Company relies on customer deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) to fund operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that the Company would be able to replace such funds in the future if the Company’s financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or general market conditions were to change. The Company’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if it is unable to maintain its access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest ra tes. Finally, if the Company is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. Although the Company considers such sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Company may seek additional debt in the future to achieve long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to the Company or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future may be dilutive to the Company’s shareholders, and debt financing arrangements may require the Company to pledge some of its assets and enter into various affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on operational activities and financing alternatives. Future financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to the Company or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to the Company and may require regulatory approval. If additional fina ncing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to Company operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Company conducts its business activities, including sales practices, practices used in origination and servicing operations, the management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and the Company’s protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team and qualified personnel. The Company is dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of its key management personnel who have substantial experience with Company operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which the Company offers services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of its senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on operations, moreover, the Company depends on its account executives and loan officers to attract bank customers by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial and consumer clients, mortgage companies, real estate agents, brokers and others. The Company believes that these relationships lead to repeat an d referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves the Company, other members of the manager’s team may follow. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. The Company’s success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as the Company grows. The Company cannot assure you that it will continue to attract or retain such personnel. 37 The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security that could impact the Company’s operational capabilities. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of the failure, interruption or security breach of information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrences of any failu res, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which the Company is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have an a dverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company does not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact profitability. Management diligently reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Recent health care legislation could increase the Company’s expenses or require it to pass further costs on to its employees, which could adversely affect operations, financial condition and earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into one of their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation will increase the Company’s employee benefits expense, and may require the Company to pass these costs on to e mployees, which could give the Company a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing the Company to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. If clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, Republic could lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing its funding costs. Company expenses will increase as a result of increases in FDIC insurance premiums. As part of a plan to restore the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC imposed a special assessment equal to five basis points of assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was payable on September 30, 2009. The Company recorded an expense of $1.4 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. The FDIC has also increased its maximum quarterly assessment rates and changed the method by which rates are calculated. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Effect ive April 1, 2011, assessments will be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. Any further special assessments or increases to quarterly assessment rates will adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Moreover, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum statutory reserve ratio for the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund will increase from 1.15% to 1.35% of insurable deposits by September 30, 2020, although banks with assets under $10 billion are exempt from any FDIC assessments necessary to increase the Deposit Insurance Fund above 1.15%. There can be no assurance that the FDIC will not impose additional special assessments, or increase the deposit premiums applicable to the Company, in the future. 38 Industry Factors The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program represents a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the program it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. There can be no assurance that Congress, the Company’s regulators, or others, will not impose additional limitations on this program or prohibit the Company from offering the program. The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program permits eligible customers to overdraft their checking accounts up to a predetermined dollar amount for the Bank’s customary overdraft fee(s). Generally, to be eligible for the Overdraft Honor program, customers must qualify for one of the Company’s traditional checking products when the account is opened and remain in that product for 30 days; have deposits of at least $600; and have had no overdrafts or returned deposited items. Once the eligibility requirements have been met, the client is eligible to participate in the Overdraft Honor program. If an overdraft occurs, the Company may pay the overdraft, at its discretion, up to $600 (an account in good standing after two years is eligible for up to $1,000). Under regulatory guidelines, customers utilizing the Overdraft Honor program may remain in overdraft status for no more than 45 days. Generally, an account that is overdrawn for 60 consecutive days is closed and the balance is charged off. Overdraft balances from deposit accounts, including those overdraft balances resulting from the Company’s Overdraft Honor program, are recorded as a component of loans on the Company’s balance sheet. The Company assesses two types of fees related to overdrawn accounts, a fixed per item fee and a fixed daily charge for being in overdraft status. The per item fee for this service is not considered an extension of credit, but rather is considered a fee for paying checks when sufficient funds are not otherwise available. As such, it is classified on the income statement in “service charges on deposits” as a component of non interest income along with per item fees assessed to customers not in the Overdraft Honor program. A substantial majority of the per item fees in service charges on deposits relates to customers in the Overdraft Honor program. The daily fee assessed to the client for being in overdraft status is considered a loan fee and is thus included in interest income under the line item “loans, including fees .” The total net per item fees included in service charges on deposits for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $11.0 million and $12.3 million. The total net daily overdraft charges included in interest income for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $2.0 million and $2.3 million. Additional limitations or elimination, or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would significantly reduce Company earnings. In November 2010, the FDIC issued its final guidance on Automated Overdraft payment programs which will require FDIC regulated banks to implement and maintain robust oversight of these programs. The new guidance, as interpreted, will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income. This guidance states, “the FDIC expects institutions to implement effective compliance and risk management systems, policies, and procedures to ensure that institutions manage any overdraft payment programs in accordance with the 2005 Joint Guidance on Overdraft Protection Programs (Joint Guidance)(FIL-11-2005) and the FRB November 12, 2009 amendments to Regulation E, to avoid harming consumers or creating other compliance, operational, financial, reputational or other risks. As changes are made to overdraft payment programs in response to regulatory developments or to implement additional recommendations, institutions are reminded to ensure that customer communications (e.g. agreements, correspondence, marketing materials, etc.) are updated accordingly, present information accurately and are not misleading. In order to allow sufficient time for institutions to review, consider and respond to the expectations in the final guidance, the FDIC expects that any additional efforts to mitigate risk would be in place by July 1, 2011.” Management believes these guidelines, as interpreted by management, will have a material negative impact on the Company’s net income in 2011 and beyond. Because of the large number of changes required by the guidelines and the lack of interpretive guidance available from the FDIC at this time regarding some of the provisions within the guidelines, management is unable to determine precisely how negative the impact will be. Additional limitations or elimination, or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would further significantly reduce the Company’s net income. 39 The Company is significantly impacted by the regulatory, fiscal and monetary policies of federal and state governments which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity position and earnings. These policies can materially affect the value of the Company’s financial instruments and can also adversely affect the Company’s customers and their ability to repay their outstanding loans. Also, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or adverse examination findings, could result in significant penalties, negatively impact operations, or result in other sanctions against the Company. The Board of Governors of the FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine, in large part, the Company’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return the Company earns on these loans and investments, all of which impact net interest margin. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels and are subject to various routine and non-routine examinations by federal and state regulators. This regulatory oversight is primarily intended to protect depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, not the stockholders of the Company. Changes in policies, regulations and statutes, or the interpretation thereof, could significantly impact the product offerings of Republic causing the Company to terminate or modify its product offerings in a manner that could materially adversely affect the earnings of the Company. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. Various federal and state regulatory agencies possess cease and desist powers, and other authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. The FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These, and other restrictions, can limit in varying degrees, the manner in which Republic conducts its business. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the President of the U.S. signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“the Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act imposes various new restrictions and creates an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions. Because the Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion, many of the details of the new law and the effects they will have on the Company will not be known for months or even years. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. Republic is monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank on the Company cannot be determined yet, the law is likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on the Company’s operations. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition and earnings. Newly enacted financial reform legislation will change the bank regulatory framework, create an independent consumer protection bureau that will assume the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect Company operations by restricting business activities, including the Company’s ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase the Company’s costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of the Company’s loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect financial performance. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on the Company’s borrowers, especially business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. 40 Republic is subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if the Company fails to meet these guidelines the Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Republic and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If Republic fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Republic’s financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If Republic’s fails to maintain well-capitalized status under its regulatory framework, or deemed not well- managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if it should experience certain regulatory violations, Republic’s status as a Financial Holding Company and its related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and its ability to offer certain financial products could be compromised. The Company’s financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted to the extent the Company relies on information that is false, misleading or inaccurate. The Company relies on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by vendors, customers and other parties. In deciding whether to extend credit, including RALs, or enter into transactions with other parties, the Company relies on information furnished by, or on behalf of, customers or entities related to those customers or other parties. Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively impact the Company. When borrowers default on obligations of one or more of their loans, it may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses, as a result of the increased allocation of management time and resources to the subsequent collection efforts. In certain situations where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable “work out” arrangements cannot be reached or performed, the Company may have to charge off loans, either in part or in whole. Prepayment of loans may negatively impact Republic’s business. The Company’s customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within the Company’s customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Company is unable to lend those funds to other customers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, Republic’s interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income would have a negative impact on Republic’s results of operations and financial condition. Difficult national and local market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. Declines in the housing market over the past few years, falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional inve stors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of general business activity. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) and its implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 41 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 