Item 1A. Risk Factors (cont’d) RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS (cont’d) The Company’s ability to adequately protect its intellectual property is limited, and competitors may misappropriate its technology, which could weaken its competitive position. The Company depends on its proprietary knowledge regarding IMAX theater systems and film technology. The Company relies principally upon a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, restrictions on disclosures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary and intellectual property rights. These laws and procedures may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtain the Company’s processes and technology or deter others from developing similar processes or technology, which could weaken the Company’s competitive position. The protection provided to the Company’s proprietary technology by the laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect it as fully as the laws of Canada or the United States. Some of the underlying technologies of the Company’s products and system components are not covered by patents or patent applications. The Company has patents issued and patent applications pending, including those covering its digital projector and digital conversion technology. The Company’s patents are filed in the United States often with corresponding patents or filed applications in other jurisdictions, such as Canada, Belgium, Japan, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The patents may not be issued or provide the Company with any competitive advantages. The patent applications may also be challenged by third parties. Several of the Company’s issued patents in the United States, Canada and Japan for improvements to IMAX projectors, IMAX 3D Dome and sound system components expire between 2009 and 2024. Any claims or litigation initiated by the Company to protect its proprietary technology could be time consuming, costly and divert the attention of its technical and management resources. Because the Company is incorporated in Canada, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to enforce against the Company liabilities based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. The Company is incorporated under the federal laws of Canada, some of its directors and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of its assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for United States’ plaintiffs to effect service within the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize against them or the Company in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability under the United States federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to bring an original action outside of the United States against the Company to enforce liabilities based solely on U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company received comments from the Staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC in a letter dated September 20, 2006 with respect to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The Company responded to these comments in December 2006. In a letter dated February 12, 2007, the SEC sent the Company additional comments, particularly in the area of its revenue recognition policies and disclosures. The Company responded to the majority of these comments in letters dated June 20, 2007 and July 2, 2007. The Company has also received comments from the OSC dated November 20, 2006, to which the Company responded on January 19, 2007. The Company has received further comments from the OSC relating to the Company’s revenue recognition policies and disclosures in letters dated February 27, 2007, April 9, 2007 and June 27, 2007. The Company has not yet responded to these comments. The Company has considered the SEC and OSC comments in the preparation of this annual report. As discussed in “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, the Company continues to discuss these areas with the SEC and OSC. It is possible further comments may arise as a result of these discussions. Page 26 Table of Contents IMAX CORPORATION 