Item 1A. Risk Factors. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “TARP Capital Purchase Program”). On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (“FDA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). More recently, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which amends certain provisions of the EESA and contains a wide array of provisions aimed at stimulating the U.S. economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and AARA and their implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the AARA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program will limit (without the consent of the Department of Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance 17 Corporation premiums even if we do not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The affects of participating or not participating in any such programs and the extent of our participation in such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. If there is a significant downturn in our primary market area, our credit risk could be adversely affected and result in loss. Because more than 90% of our loans are made in our primary market area and we are heavily concentrated in commercial real estate, if the primary market area suffers a significant or prolonged period of economic downturn, there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us. This could result in higher levels of credit-related losses, which could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to strain from competition from both large banks and small denovo banks in our market. If the large bank competition increases or focuses more heavily on our market, our business could suffer. Additionally, if we are forced to compete with the small denovo banks in our market for deposits, our business could suffer. The financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. The large banks in our market can achieve greater economies of scale due to their financial strength and marketing clout. If these large banks focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. At the same time, our net interest margin could come under considerable pressure if we are forced to compete locally with the small denova banks for certificates of deposits. If we experience a further deterioration in our asset quality, this could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our credit administration process is a critical function in maintaining asset quality. A failure in the effectiveness of this process may adversely impact our loan underwriting or monitoring and in either case, negatively affect our asset quality. Asset quality is a core value of our Company and the credit administration process is critical to maintaining that core value in both the underwriting of new loans as well as the monitoring of existing loans. We have established policies, procedures, and systems that are designed to enhance our ability to perform the credit administration function effectively to preserve asset quality. However, if the policies, procedures and/or systems fail or are inadequately followed, we may face the potential of loss, which could have a material impact on our results from operations. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our future profitability will substantially depend upon our ability to maintain or increase the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition. The shape of the yield curve can also impact net interest income. Changing rates will impact how fast our mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities will have the principal repaid. Rate changes can also impact the behavior of our depositors, especially depositors in non-maturity deposits such as demand, interest checking, savings and money market accounts. While we attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, we are unable to eliminate it as it is an inherent part of our business. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and industry-specific conditions and economic conditions generally. 18 We have operational risk that could impact our ability to provide services to our customers. We have potential operational risk exposure throughout our organization. Integral to our performance is the continued effectiveness and efficiency of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and key individuals involved in our ongoing activities. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes but is not limited to operational or technical failures, unlawful tampering with our information technology infrastructure, terrorist activities, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of the key individuals to perform properly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 