ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In the course of conducting its business operations, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to its own business. The following discussion addresses the most significant risks that could affect the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and capital position. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is not aware of or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair our business. Risks Associated With Our Business Competition from within and outside the financial services industry may materially and adversely affect our business. The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition in attracting and retaining core business relationships. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services business may reduce our market share, decrease loan demand, cause the prices we charge for our services to fall, result in a decline in the rates we charge on loans and/or cause higher rates to be paid on deposits. Therefore, our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature and level of competition. Additionally, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions, which historically have involved banks, through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds, which would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to have a material and adverse effect on our business. Since late 2007, the United States generally and the State of California in particular have experienced difficult economic conditions. Weak economic conditions are characterized by, among other indicators, deflation, increased levels of unemployment, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, increased delinquencies on mortgage, commercial and consumer loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of those factors have been, and may continue to be, detrimental to the Company’s business. In addition, the Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in its credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. While some economic trends have shown signs of improvement, we cannot be certain that market and economic conditions will substantially improve in the near future. Recent and ongoing events at the state, national and international levels continue to create uncertainty in the economy and financial markets and could adversely impact economic conditions in the Company’s market area. 12 Table of Contents A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of the recent market and economic conditions on us and our customers. As a result, the Company may experience additional increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies as well as more restricted access to funds. Any such negative events may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Moreover, because of the Company’s geographic concentration, it is less able to diversify its credit risks across multiple markets to the same extent as regional or national financial institutions. The cost and other effects of the full implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act remain unknown and may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The full compliance burden and impact on our operations and profitability with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act remain uncertain, as the Dodd-Frank Act delegates to various federal agencies the task of implementing its many provisions through regulation. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been implemented, federal rules and policies in this area and the effects of their implementation will be further developing for some time to come. However, based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the current and anticipated implementing regulations, it is highly likely that banks and their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations that expose us to higher costs as well as noncompliance risk and consequences. New capital rules proposed by the federal bank regulatory agencies would require increased capital levels that we may not be able to satisfy and could impede our growth and profitability. The federal bank regulatory agencies issued joint proposed rules in mid-2012 that would increase minimum capital ratios, add a new minimum common equity ratio, add a new capital conservation buffer, and would change the risk-weightings of certain assets. The proposed changes, when implemented, would be phased in through 2019. Management is currently assessing the effect of the proposed rules on the Company and the Bank’s capital positions. Community bank associations have vocalized their concerns in comment letters to the regulatory agencies regarding the additional regulatory burdens the proposals would place on community banks if not modified in the final rule. When the proposed rules are finalized and implemented, they could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, capital resources and financial condition. The Company is operating under enhanced regulatory supervision that could materially and adversely affect our business. The Company became subject to a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve and the Bank became subject to a Consent Order with the FDIC and DFI on March 4, 2010 resulting from elevated levels of risks associated with a challenging operating environment. In April 2012, the Order was terminated and the Bank executed a MOU with the FDIC and DFI. In the MOU, the Bank committed to, among other things, continue to make progress in improving credit quality and processes, as well as to continue to comply with the 10% leverage ratio as originally established by the Order. In July 2012, the Written Agreement was terminated and the Company executed a MOU with the Federal Reserve. In the MOU, the Company committed, among other things, to continue to seek Federal Reserve approval prior to: paying any dividends on its common and preferred stock; paying interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debt or trust preferred securities; or incurring, increasing, or guaranteeing any debt. Such enforcement actions place limitations on our business and may adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. If the Company or Bank fails to comply with these enforcement actions, it may become subject to further regulatory enforcement actions up to and including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the Bank. Management believes the Bank and Company are in full compliance with the requirements of each MOU. However, ultimate compliance with all remaining items noted in the MOU remains subject to regulatory examination and review. The Bank’s next regulatory examination is scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2013. The Company currently does not have an examination or review by the FRB scheduled. We are highly dependent on the real estate market and a renewed downturn in the real estate market may have a material and adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is collateralized by real estate. Although we have seen what we believe are the signs of stabilization in the local economies in which we operate, a renewed decline in economic conditions, the local housing market or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans or the value of real estate owned by us, any combination of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents In addition, a large portion of the loan portfolio is collateralized by real estate that is subject to risks related to acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires. To the extent that these events occur, they may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, which may also negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have a concentration in higher risk commercial real estate loans. We have a high concentration in commercial real estate (“CRE”) loans. CRE loans are defined as construction, land development, other land loans, loans secured by multi-family (5 or more units) residential properties and loans secured by non-farm non-residential properties. Following this definition, approximately 54% of our gross loans can be classified as CRE lending as of December 31, 2012. CRE loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than certain other types of lending due, among other things, to the generally large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of these borrowers could have a material and adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, commercial real estate loans generally depend on the cash flow from the property to service the debt. Cash flow may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, which may result in non-performance by certain borrowers. Our business is subject to credit exposure and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We have been able to reduce our overall level of classified assets, including substandard loans, other real estate owned and non-investment grade securities. However, the current levels remain elevated as compared to our historical experience prior to the global credit crisis beginning in the latter part of the last decade. These higher levels of classified assets expose us to increased credit risk. While we believe that we are making progress in identifying and resolving classified assets, no assurance can be given that we will continue to make progress, particularly if the local economies in which we operate suffer renewed deterioration. We believe that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable, incurred credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the probability of such borrowers making payments, as well as the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan and lease losses may be insufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may adversely impact our operating results. Our regulators, as an integral part of their regular examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase it by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. A substantial portion of the Company’s income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. With fixed rate assets (such as fixed rate loans and investment securities) and liabilities (such as certificates of deposit), the effect on net interest income depends on the cash flows associated with the maturity of the asset or liability. Asset/liability management policy may not be successfully implemented and from time to time the Company’s risk position may not be balanced. An unanticipated rapid decrease or increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore on the level of net interest income. For instance, any rapid increase in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of fixed rate loans and longer term investments. Further, substantially higher interest rates could reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth than previously experienced. This would have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s results of operation and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and negatively impact our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Declines in the market value of our investment portfolio may adversely affect our financial performance, liquidity and capital. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities, municipal securities and asset backed securities. Although we have seen an improvement in the overall market value of our investment portfolio in 2012, the market value of investments in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile over the last few years, largely due to disruptions in the capital markets. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the servicer of the securities, or the mortgages underlying the securities, such as changes in interest rates, credit ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate, and a lack of liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. Furthermore, problems at the federal and state government levels may trickle down to municipalities and adversely impact our investment in municipal bonds. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate investments and other assets for impairment. We may be required to record impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment against earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the charges occur. Failure to successfully execute our strategic plan may adversely affect our performance. Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to execute our corporate strategies. Each year, our board of directors approves our long-term strategic plan and annual operating budget. Our near-term business strategy includes expanding our market share within our geographic footprint through opening new branches and/or loan production offices or acquiring other financial institutions. However, our growth strategy may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively execute this strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. Other factors that may adversely affect our ability to attain our long-term financial performance goals include an inability to control non-interest expense, including, but not limited to, rising employee compensation costs, regulatory compliance, healthcare costs, limitations imposed on us through regulatory actions, and our inability to increase net-interest income due to continued downward pressure on interest rates. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them without offering very high compensation. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. These regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. In addition, because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s TARP investment, we remain subject to the strict restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s TARP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA. Due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s TARP investment to attract, retain and appropriately incentivize high performing employees. If we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The Company faces operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or security breach that may result in unexpected losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. In recent months, groups of foreign ‘hacktivists’ have targeted banks with distributed denial of service (DDos) attacks aimed at disrupting the bank’s websites and e-baking capabilities. These attacks may increase or spread to smaller banks, such as ours. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Necessary changes in technology could be costly. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies on third party service providers for key systems. The Company uses a third party software service provider to perform all of its transaction data processing. The Company also outsources other customer service applications, such as on-line banking, ACH and wire transfers, to third party vendors. If these service providers were to experience technical difficulties or incur any extended outages in services, it could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers. To the extent such service providers also service larger banks, their systems could be affected by DDoS attacks directed at their other bank customers. Further, if the Company was required to switch service providers due to deterioration in service quality or other factors, there is no guarantee that it could obtain comparable services for a comparable price. Our operations face severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external risks. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. The Central Coast of California is subject to earthquakes, fires and landslides. Operations in our market could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Maintaining our reputation as a community bank is critical to our success and the failure to do so may materially and adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Associated With Our Stock Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may pose certain risks to holders of our common stock. Under the terms of the CPP, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury $21.0 million in preferred stock and a warrant to purchase approximately $3.2 million of the Company’s common stock. Although the Company believes that its participation in the CPP is in the best interests of our shareholders in that it enhances Company and Bank capital and provides additional funds for future growth, it may pose certain risks to the holders of our common stock such as the following: · Under the terms outlined by the U.S. Treasury for participants in the CPP, the Company issued a warrant to the U.S. Treasury to purchase shares of its common stock. The issuance of this warrant may be dilutive to current common stockholders in that it reduces earnings per common share. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant is exercised. The U.S. Treasury has the right to purchase 611,650 shares of our common stock at a price of $5.15 per share, which would result in an approximate 2.4% ownership interest. · Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction and therefore has the ability to become a shareholder of the Company and possess voting power. · The preferred equity issued to the U.S. Treasury is non-voting; however, the terms of the CPP stipulate that the U.S. Treasury may vote its senior equity in matters deemed by the U.S. Treasury to have an impact on its holdings. · Although the Company does not foresee any material changes to the terms associated with its participation in the CPP, the U.S. Government, as a sovereign body, may at any time change the terms of our participation in the CPP and/or significantly influence Company policy. We depend on cash dividends from the Bank to meet our cash obligations. As a holding company, dividends from our subsidiary bank provide a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust preferred securities, dividend payments on our preferred stock and other obligations, including any cash dividends to our common stockholders. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiary bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. As outlined in the MOU the Bank entered into with the FDIC and DFI, the Bank cannot pay any cash dividends or other payments to the holding company without prior written consent of the regulatory authorities. Additionally, the Company cannot declare or pay any dividends (including those on outstanding preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP CPP) or make any distributions of principal, interest or other sums on its trust preferred securities without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. If we defer six dividend payments on the TARP preferred stock, the U.S. Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our Board. As of December 31, 2012, we were current in our dividend payments. Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders. Accrued dividends and the accretion on our outstanding preferred stock reduce net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, our Series C Preferred Stock may be dilutive to common stockholders to the extent the Company is profitable and must consider the dilutive nature of these securities in its calculation of earnings per common share. 17 Table of Contents Also, the Company’s preferred stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding-down. Our stock trades less frequently than others. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial service companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Our stock price is affected by a variety of factors. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and perceptions in the marketplace regarding our company and/or its competitors and the industry in which we operate. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent shareholders from selling their common stock at or above the price they paid. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. Any future issuance of preferred or common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We frequently evaluate opportunities to access the capital markets, taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations. Any future issuances of equity may result in additional common shares outstanding and/or reduce the amount of income available to common shareholders. In addition, we face significant regulatory and other governmental risk as a financial institution and as a participant in the TARP CPP, and it is possible that capital requirements and directives may, in the future, require us to change the amount or composition of our current capital including common equity. As a result we may determine we need, or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital. Should we need to raise capital in the future, it may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. We have previously raised capital through two issuances of trust preferred securities from two separate special purpose trusts, one of which was dissolved in 2010. At December 31, 2012, we had $8.3 million of trust preferred securities outstanding. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of the remaining special purpose trust are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years during which time no cash dividends may be paid on our common stock. Our common stock is not an FDIC insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky and is subject to market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. 18 Table of Contents As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may hinder a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 