ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.We are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose some or all of any investment. You should carefully read the risks described below before you decide to buy any of our common stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any one of these risks or additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial.Risks Related to the Company’s BusinessThe Company’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.The community banking industry is directly affected by national, regional, and local economic conditions. Although economic conditions have improved, local governments and many businesses are still experiencing difficulty as a result of the recent economic downturn and protracted recovery. Management allocates significant resources to mitigate and respond to risks associated with the current volatile economic conditions; however, such conditions cannot be predicted or controlled. Therefore, such conditions, including a flatter yield curve and extended low interest rates, could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, and/or the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s financial performance is dependent on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates—in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Company offers. While general economic conditions in Virginia and the U.S. continued to improve in 2013, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue.14Table of ContentsThe Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in its loan portfolio.Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans that its borrowers may not repay in their entirety. The Company believes that it maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date and in compliance with applicable accounting and regulatory guidance. However, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Accounting measurements related to impairment and the loan loss allowance require significant estimates that are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. The significant uncertainties surrounding the Company’s borrowers’ abilities to execute their business models successfully through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors complicate the Company’s estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, the actual losses may vary from current estimates. The Company’s banking regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease the allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such required additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s concentration in loans secured by real estate may adversely affect earnings due to changes in the real estate markets.The Company offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer, and other loans. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Company’s market areas. A major change in the real estate markets, resulting in deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect borrowers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could affect the Company. Risks of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry; the Company tries to limit its exposure to these risks by monitoring extensions of credit carefully. The Company cannot fully eliminate credit risk; thus, credit losses will occur in the future. Additionally, changes in the real estate market also affect the value of foreclosed assets and, therefore, additional losses may occur when management determines it is appropriate to sell the assets.The Company has a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate, and loans with this type of collateral are viewed as having more risk of default.The Company's commercial real estate portfolio consists of owner-occupied properties and income-producing commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner's business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because the Company's loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in the percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.The Company's banking regulators generally give commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's result of operations.The Company’s credit standards and its on-going credit assessment processes might not protect it from significant credit losses.The Company assumes credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. The Company manages credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and a continuous quality assessment process of credit already extended. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize local lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. The Company’s credit administration function employs risk management techniques to help ensure that problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide the Company with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary and to take appropriate corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk.15Table of ContentsNonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.The Company’s nonperforming assets adversely affect its net income in various ways. The Company does not record interest income on non-accrual loans, which adversely affects its income and increases loan administration costs. When the Company receives collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases the Company’s risk profile and may affect the capital levels regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks. The Company utilizes various techniques such as workouts, restructurings, and loan sales to manage problem assets. Increases in or negative adjustments in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities, including origination of new loans. There can be no assurance that the Company will avoid further increases in nonperforming loans in the future.Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s income and cash flows.The Company’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if the Company does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. In addition, the Company’s ability to reflect such interest rate changes in pricing its products is influenced by competitive pressures. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect the Company and its shareholders. The Bank is often at a competitive disadvantage in managing its costs of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional, or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets.The Company generally seeks to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production, deposit flows, and competitive pressures are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Generally, the Company’s earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates depending upon the variance in volume of assets and liabilities that mature and re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of changes in interest rates, shape and slope of the yield curve, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly, the Company may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, the Company’s net interest margin may be affected.The Company faces substantial competition that could adversely affect the Company’s growth and/or operating results.The Company operates in a competitive market for financial services and faces intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and attracting deposits which can greatly affect pricing for our products and services. The Company’s primary competitors include community, regional, and national banks as well as credit unions and mortgage companies. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases and have greater financial resources and higher lending limits. In addition, credit unions are exempt from corporate income taxes, providing a significant competitive pricing advantage. Accordingly, some of the Company’s competitors in its market have the ability to offer products and services that it is unable to offer or to offer at more competitive rates.The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by cyber security risks.In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of its customers and employees in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance and use of this information is critical to operations and the Company’s business strategy. The Company has invested in accepted technologies, and continually reviews processes and practices that are designed to protect its networks, computers and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, the Company’s computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. A breach of any kind could compromise systems and the information stored there could be accessed, damaged or disclosed. A breach in security could result in legal claims, regulatory penalties, disruption in operations, and damage to the Company’s reputation, which could adversely affect our business.16Table of ContentsThe Company’s exposure to operational, technological and organizational risk may adversely affect the Company.Similar to other financial institutions, the Company is exposed to many types of operational and technological risk, including reputation, legal, and compliance risk. The Company’s ability to grow and compete is dependent on its ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while it expands. Similar to other financial institutions, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, and exposure to external events. The Company is dependent on its operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. From time to time, it may need to change or upgrade its technology infrastructure. The Company may experience disruption, and it may face additional exposure to these risks during the course of making such changes.The Company's operations depend upon third party vendors that perform services for us.We outsource many of our operating and banking functions, including our data processing function, our item processing and the interchange and transmission services for our ATM network. As such, our success and our ability to expand our operations depend on the services provided by these third parties. Disputes with these third parties can adversely affect our operations. We may not be able to engage appropriate vendors to adequately service our needs, and the vendors that we engage may not be able to perform successfully.We depend on the services of our key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel may disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues.Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely affect the Company or the businesses in which the Company is engaged.The Company is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations. Laws and regulations change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, and the FDIC’s DIF. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively affect the Company or its ability to increase the value of its business. Such changes could include higher capital requirements, increased insurance premiums, increased compliance costs, reductions of non-interest income and limitations on services that can be provided. Actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Company could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defend itself and may lead to liability or penalties that materially affect the Company and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement could be materially adverse to the Company and its shareholders.The Dodd-Frank Act substantially changes the regulation of the financial services industry and it could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.The Dodd-Frank Act provides wide-ranging changes in the way banks and financial services firms generally are regulated and is likely to affect the way the Company and its customers and counterparties do business with each other. Among other things, it requires increased capital and regulatory oversight for banks and their holding companies, changes the deposit insurance assessment system, changes responsibilities among regulators, establishes the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, makes various changes in the securities laws and corporate governance that affect public companies, including the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires numerous studies and regulations related to its implementation. The Company is evaluating the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, together with implementing the regulations that have been proposed and adopted. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and the resulting rulemaking cannot be predicted, but could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operation and financial condition.Proposed and final regulations could restricted our ability to originate loans.Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule effective January 10, 2014, requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms, or to originate "qualified mortgages" that meet specific requirements with respect to terms, pricing and fees. The new rule also contains new disclosure requirements at mortgage loan origination and in monthly statements. These requirements will likely require significant personnel resources and could have a material adverse effect on our operations.17Table of ContentsThe Company relies upon independent appraisals to determine the value of the real estate which secures a significant portion of its loans, and the values indicated by such appraisals may not be realizable if the Company is forced to foreclose upon such loans.A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. The Company relies upon independent appraisers to estimate the value of such real estate. Appraisals are only estimates of value and the independent appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment that adversely affect the reliability of their appraisals. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to increase or decrease. As a result of any of these factors, the real estate securing some of the Company’s loans may be more or less valuable than anticipated at the time the loans were made. If a default occurs on a loan secured by real estate that is less valuable than originally estimated, the Company may not be able to recover the outstanding balance of the loan.Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.The authorities that promulgate accounting standards, including the FASB, SEC, and other regulatory authorities, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of financial statements for prior periods. Such changes could also require the Company to incur additional personnel or technology costs.Failure to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of the Company's ongoing monitoring of internal control, it may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control that require remediation. A "material weakness" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The Company has in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of its internal controls that need improvement and, as such, continuously works to improve its internal control framework. The Company cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that it implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of the Company's internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm the Company's reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.Our legal lending limit may limit our growth.We are limited in the amount we can lend to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2013, we were permitted, by law, to lend approximately $13.1 million to any one borrower. However, we have set a “house lending limit” of approximately $9.2 million. This amount is significantly less than many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable.Risks Related to the Company’s SecuritiesThe Company's ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of the Bank.The Company is a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through the Bank. As a result, the Company's ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from the Bank. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company.18Table of ContentsIf we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock.We may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed.We may in the future issue additional stock, any or all of which will dilute your percentage ownership and, possibly, the value of your shares.The Company is not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of common stock. Issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the expectation that such issuances might occur, including in connection with acquisitions by the Company, could materially adversely affect the market price of the shares of the common stock and could be dilutive to shareholders. Because the Company’s decision to issue common stock in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors, it cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of possible future issuances of its common stock. Accordingly, the Company’s shareholders bear the risk that future issuances will reduce the market price of the common stock and dilute their stock holdings in the Company.There is a limited trading market for our common stock; it may be difficult to sell our shares after you have purchased them.Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “VYFC.” The volume of trading activity in our stock is relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other stock exchanges. There is no assurance that a more active and liquid trading market for the common stock will exist in the future. Consequently, shareholders may not be able to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of the Company’s common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline, or reduce the Company’s ability to raise capital through future sales of common stock.The current economic conditions may cause volatility in the Company’s stock value.In the current economic environment, the value of publicly traded stocks in the financial services sector has been volatile. However, even in a more stable economic environment the value of the Company’s common stock can be affected by a variety of factors such as expected results of operations, actual results of operations, actions taken by shareholders, news or expectations based on the performance of others in the financial services industry and expected impacts of a changing regulatory environment. These factors not only impact the value of our stock but could also affect the liquidity of the stock given the Company’s size, geographical footprint, and industry.ITEM 1B. UNRESOVLED STAFF COMMENTS.The Company does not have any unresolved staff comments to report for the year ended December 31, 2013.