Item 1A. Risk Factors. If there is a significant economic downturn in our primary market area, our credit risk could be adversely affected and result in loss. Because 93% of our loans are made in our primary market area and we have a concentration in commercial real estate, our loan portfolio, as a whole, could be more severely impacted and our performance adversely affected if the primary market area suffers a significant or prolonged period of economic downturn. If market interest rates increase, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. Because we have recently become more liability sensitive during 2006, our interest-bearing liabilities (deposits) reprice sooner than our interest-bearing assets (loans). As a result, in a period of increasing interest rates, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. Our market has a concentration of large and small banks. If the large bank competition increases or focuses more heavily on our market, our business could suffer. Additionally, our ability to attract and retain deposits without adverse margin compression could be affected by competition from smaller banks. Financial services in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. The large banks in our market can achieve greater economies of scale due to their financial strength and marketing clout. If these large banks focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. At the same time, our net interest margin could come under pressure if we are forced to compete locally with the smaller banks for deposits. We offer several forms of specialized asset-based lending to our commercial business customers which require substantial risk management and monitoring processes. Therefore, our credit administration process becomes a more critical function in maintaining asset quality. A failure in the effectiveness of this process may adversely impact our loan underwriting or monitoring and in either case, negatively affect our asset quality. Asset quality is a core value of our Company and the credit administration process is critical to maintaining that core value in both the underwriting of new loans as well as the monitoring of existing loans. We have established policies, procedures, and systems that are designed to enhance our ability to perform the credit administration function effectively to preserve asset quality. However, if the policies, procedures and/or systems fail or are inadequately followed, we may face the potential of loss, which could have a material impact on our results from operations. 11 Table of Contents If we experience a further deterioration in our asset quality, our performance, our ability to raise capital, and the value of our common stock could be negatively affected. Our business strategy calls for continued growth and our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. While we anticipate that we will be able to support our growth through the generation of net income, additional deposits, and investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities in the public market will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 