Item 1A. Risk Factors. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS There are factors, many beyond the Company’s control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of the Company. Some of these factors are described below in the sections titled “Company Factors” and “Industry Factors,” however, many are described in the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company Factors The Company’s accounting policies and estimates are critical components of the Company’s presentation of its financial statements. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different than amounts previously estimated. Management has identified five accounting policies and estimates as being critical to the presentation of the Company’s financial statements. These policies are described under Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and relate to the following: · Allowance for loan losses · Mortgage servicing rights · Income tax accounting · Goodwill and other intangible assets · Impairment of investment securities · Tax Refund Solutions The Company’s lines of business and products not typically associated with traditional banking expose the Company’s earnings to additional risks and uncertainties. In addition to traditional banking and mortgage banking products, the Company provides RALs and “Overdraft Honor” deposit accounts. The following details specific risk factors related to these lines of business: · RALs represent a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the business, it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. Tax Refund Solutions (“TRS”) offers bank products to facilitate the payment of tax refunds for customers that electronically file their tax returns. The Company is one of only a few financial institutions in the U.S. that provides this service to taxpayers. Under this program, the taxpayer may receive a RAL or an Electronic Refund Check or Electronic Refund Deposit (“ERC/ERD”). In return, the Company charges a fee for the service. During 2008, net income from the Company’s TRS business operating segment accounted for approximately 39% of the Company’s total net income. Various governmental and consumer groups have, from time to time, questioned the fairness of the RAL program and have accused this industry of charging excessive/usurious rates of interest, via the fee, and engaging in predatory lending practices. Consumer groups have also claimed that customers are not adequately advised that a RAL is a loan product and that alternative, less expensive means of obtaining tax refund proceeds may be available. Actions of these groups and others could result in regulatory, governmental or legislative action or material litigation against the Company. Exiting this line of business, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would significantly reduce the Company’s earnings. · The TRS business operating segment represents a significant operational risk, and if the Company were unable to properly service the business, or grow the business, it could materially impact the earnings of the Company. Continued growth in this business operating segment requires continued increases in technology and employees to service the new business. In order to process the new business, the Company must implement and test new systems, as well as train new employees. Significant operational problems could cause the Company to incur higher than normal credit losses. Significant operational problems could also cause a material portion of the Company’s tax-preparer base to switch to a competitor bank to process their bank product transactions, significantly reducing the Company’s projected revenue without a corresponding decrease in expenses. 23 Table of Contents · RALs represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and if the Company fails to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, it could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters relating to the offering of RALs. Failure to comply with disclosure requirements such as Regulation B, Fair Lending and Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, or with laws relating to the permissibility of interest rates and fees charged could have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also expose the Company to additional litigation risk and civil monetary penalties. · RALs represent a significant liquidity, or funding, risk. Significantly overestimating or underestimating the Company’s liquidity or funding needs for the upcoming tax season could have a material negative impact on the Company’s overall earnings. Funding for RAL liquidity requirements may also cost more than the Company’s current estimates and/or historical experience. The Company’s liquidity risk increases significantly during the first quarter of each year due to the RAL program. The Company has committed to its electronic filer and tax-preparer base that it will make RALs available to their customers under the terms of its contracts with them. This requires the Company to estimate liquidity, or funding needs for the RAL program, well in advance of the tax season. If management materially overestimates the need for funding during the tax season, a significant expense could be incurred without an offsetting revenue stream. If management materially underestimates its funding needs during the tax season, the Company could experience a significant shortfall of capital needed to fund RALs and could potentially be required to stop or reduce its RAL originations. Due to the excessive costs of securitization structures, which resulted from a significant lack of liquidity in the credit markets during the latter half of 2008, the Company elected not to obtain funding from a securitization structure for the first quarter 2009 tax season. Therefore, the Company will rely on brokered deposits as its primary RAL funding source for the first quarter 2009 tax season. · RALs represent a significant credit risk, and if the Company is unable to collect a significant portion of its RALs it would materially, negatively impact the earnings of the Company. There is credit risk associated with a RAL because the funds are disbursed to the customer prior to the Company receiving the customer’s refund from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The Company collects substantially all of its payments related to RALs from the IRS. Losses generally occur on RALs when the Company does not receive payment from the IRS due to a number of reasons, including errors in the tax return, tax return fraud and tax debts not disclosed to the Company during its underwriting process. The provision for loan losses is the TRS segment’s most influential component to its overall earnings. Historically at TRS, net credit losses related to RALs within a given calendar year have ranged from a low of 0.04% to a high of 1.17% of total RALs originated (including retained and securitized RALs). During 2008, the Company incurred $14.4 million in net credit losses associated with RALs both retained on balance sheet by the Company and securitized by the Company. Losses as a percent of total RALs originated (including retained and securitized RALs) during 2008 were 0.81%. Profitability in the Company’s TRS business operating segment is primarily driven by the volume of RAL transactions processed and the loss rate incurred on RALs, and is particularly sensitive to both measures. Through February 27, 2009, the Company has processed 30% more RAL transactions than through the same date in 2008. Also, through February 27, 2009, the percent of refunds submitted to IRS for repayment of RALs which have not been paid is 2.38%, compared to 1.61% through the same period in 2008. The Company expects the actual loss rate realized will be less than the current delinquency rate as the Company will continue to receive payments from the IRS throughout the year and make other collection efforts to obtain repayment on the loans. Based on the Company’s 2009 RAL volume, each 0.10% increase in the loss rate for RALs represents approximately $2.4 million in additional provision for loan loss expense. Management believes that compared to 2008, the 2009 tax season will reflect both greater volume and a higher ultimate loss rate. The ultimate impact of these offsetting factors cannot yet be determined. 24 Table of Contents · The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program represents a significant business risk, and if the Company terminated the program it would materially impact the earnings of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company’s regulators, or others, will not impose additional limitations on this program or prohibit the Company from offering the program. The Company’s “Overdraft Honor” program permits eligible customers to overdraft their checking accounts up to a predetermined dollar amount for the Bank’s customary overdraft fee(s). Generally, to be eligible for the Overdraft Honor program, customers must qualify for one of the Company’s traditional checking products when the account is opened and remain in that product for 30 days; have deposits of at least $500; and have had no overdrafts or returned deposited items. Once the eligibility requirements have been met, the client is eligible to participate in the Overdraft Honor program. If an overdraft occurs, the Company may pay the overdraft, at its discretion, up to $500 (an account in good standing after two years is eligible for up to $1,000). Under regulatory guidelines, customers utilizing the Overdraft Honor program may remain in overdraft status for no more than 45 days. Generally, an account that is overdrawn for 60 consecutive days is closed and the balance is charged off. Overdraft balances from deposit accounts, including those overdraft balances resulting from the Company’s Overdraft Honor program, are recorded as a component of loans on the Company’s balance sheet. The Company assesses two types of fees related to overdrawn accounts, a fixed per item fee and a fixed daily charge for being in overdraft status. The per item fee for this service is not considered an extension of credit, but rather is considered a fee for paying checks when sufficient funds are not otherwise available. As such, it is classified on the income statement in “service charges on deposits” as a component of non interest income along with per item fees assessed to customers not in the Overdraft Honor program. A substantial majority of the per item fees in service charges on deposits relates to customers in the Overdraft Honor program. The daily fee assessed to the client for being in overdraft status is considered a loan fee and is thus included in interest income under the line item “loans, including fees.” The Company earns a substantial majority of its fee income related to this program from the per item fee it assesses its customers for each insufficient funds check or electronic debit presented for payment. Both the per item fee and the daily fee assessed to the account resulting from its overdraft status, if computed as a percentage of the amount overdrawn, results in a high rate of interest when annualized and are thus considered excessive by some consumer groups. The total net per item fees included in service charges on deposits for 2008 and 2007 were $13.6 million and $13.7 million. The total net daily overdraft charges included in interest income for 2008 and 2007 were $2.6 million and $2.7 million. Additional limitations or elimination, or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would significantly reduce Company earnings. RB&T is subject to a Cease and Desist Order (the “Order”) from the FDIC. The failure to comply with this Order could result in significant penalties and/or additional sanctions. The FDIC issued an Order dated February 27, 2009 to RB&T, which cites insufficient oversight of RB&T’s consumer compliance programs, most notably in RB&T’s RAL program. The Order requires increased compliance oversight of the RAL program by RB&T’s management and board of directors that is subject to review and approval by the FDIC. Under the Order, RB&T must increase its training and audits of its electronic refund originator (“ERO”) partners, who make RB&T’s tax products available to taxpayers across the nation. In addition, various components of the Order require RB&T to meet certain implementation, completion and reporting timelines, including the establishment of a compliance management system to appropriately assess, measure, monitor and control third party risk and ensure compliance with consumer laws. If the FDIC determines that RB&T is not in compliance with the Order, it has the authority to issue more restrictive enforcement actions. These enforcement actions could include significant penalties and/or requirements regarding the tax business which could significantly, negatively impact this segment’s profitability. See Exhibit 10.62 under Part IV of this filing for additional information regarding the Order. 25 Table of Contents The Company owns $14.7 million of investment securities which the Company believes have an elevated level of credit risk and are extremely illiquid. Nationally, residential real estate values declined significantly during 2007 and 2008. These declines in value, coupled with the reduced ability of certain homeowners to refinance or repay their residential real estate obligations, have led to elevated delinquencies and losses in single family residential real estate loans. Many of these loans have previously been securitized and sold to investors as private label mortgage backed or other private label mortgage-related investment securities. The Company currently owns five private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage-related investment securities with a fair value of $14.7 million at December 31, 2008. These investment securities are not guaranteed by government agencies. Approximately $9.0 million of these investment securities are mostly backed by “Alternative A” first lien mortgage loans. The remaining $5.7 million represents an asset backed security with an insurance “wrap” or guarantee. The average life of these investment securities is currently estimated to be approximately five years. Due to current market conditions, all of these assets are extremely illiquid, and as such, the Company determined that these investment securities are Level 3 investment securities in accordance with FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. 157-3 “Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for that Asset Is Not Active,” which was issued in October 2008. Based on this determination, the Company began utilizing an income valuation model (present value model) approach, in determining the fair value of these securities. This approach is beneficial for positions that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, and/or where valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management’s best estimate is used. Management’s best estimate consists of both internal and external support on the investment. Prior to the second quarter of 2008, unrealized losses on the Company’s private label mortgage backed investment securities and other private label mortgage related investment securities were not recognized into income because the bonds were deemed to be of sufficient credit quality (rated A+, Aa1 or higher) and the Company had the intent and ability to hold the investment securities until maturity and the discounted cashflows were not impaired. The Company evaluated the performance of the loans underlying these investment securities and concluded it would likely continue to receive the future expected cash flows of these investment securities in accordance with their original terms. As such, prior to the second quarter of 2008, the Company concluded that the fair value of all private label mortgage backed investment securities and other private label mortgage related investment securities would recover as the investment securities approached maturity. During the second quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a non cash Other-Than-Temporary-Impairment (“OTTI”) charge totaling $3.4 million for two of its available for sale private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage related investment securities. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company recorded another non cash OTTI charge totaling $3.9 million related to another available for sale private label mortgage backed and other non-agency mortgage related security. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded an additional OTTI charge totaling $6.9 million related to the Company’s available for sale private label mortgage backed and other non-agency mortgage related investment securities. The Company recorded total OTTI charges of $14.2 million related to its available for sale private label mortgage backed and other private label mortgage related investment securities during 2008. Further deterioration in economic conditions and/or new or additional downgrades from applicable rating agencies could cause the Company to record additional impairment charges up to $14.7 million in the future. See additional discussion regarding these impairment charges under Footnote 3 “Investment Securities” of Part II Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability. The Company’s primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The Company expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, earnings may be negatively affected. Many factors affect the fluctuation of market interest rates, including, but not limited to the following: · Inflation, · Recession, · A rise in unemployment, · Tightening money supply, · International disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, · The Federal Reserve reducing rates, and · Competition. 26 Table of Contents The Company’s asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Mortgage banking activities are significantly impacted by changing long-term interest rates. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in financial markets in the U.S. and in other countries. Changes in interest rates can impact the gain on sale of loans, loan origination fees and loan servicing fees, which account for a significant portion of mortgage banking income. A decline in interest rates generally results in higher demand for mortgage products, while an increase in rates generally results in reduced demand. Generally, if demand increases, mortgage banking income will be positively impacted by more gains on sale; however, the valuation of existing mortgage servicing rights will decrease and may result in a significant impairment. Moreover, a decline in demand for mortgage banking products could also adversely impact other programs/products such as home equity lending, title insurance commissions and service charges on deposit accounts. See additional discussion about this product under Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Footnote 7 “Mortgage Banking Activities” and Footnote 23 “Segment Information” of Part II Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Company’s stock generally has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a stockholder’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly sell large numbers of shares of Republic’s stock without causing wide price fluctuations. Republic’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, such as actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation, regulatory actions or changes in government regulations, among other factors. A low average daily stock trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. An investment in the Company’s Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company’s Chairman, President, and Vice Chairman hold substantial amounts of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes. This group generally votes together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. Consequently, other stockholders’ ability to influence the Company’s actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. The Company cannot assure you that majority stockholders will vote their shares in accordance with minority stockholder interests. The Company may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future for growth, investment or strategic acquisitions. The Company cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, it may not be able to grow or make strategic acquisitions or investments. The Company’s funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support future growth. The Company relies on customer deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the FHLB to fund operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that the Company would be able to replace such funds in the future if the Company’s financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or general market conditions were to change. The Company’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if it is unable to maintain its access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if the Company is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. Although the Company considers such sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Company may seek additional debt in the future to achieve long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to the Company or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Difficult national and local market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. Declines in the housing market over the past few years, falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of general business activity. To date, the impact of these adverse conditions has not been as severe in the primary markets the Company serves. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. Under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program the FDIC offers a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions. Participation in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program requires the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. The Company expects to be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than those published for 2009 because market developments have depleted the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) and its implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit. The Company’s financial condition and profitability depend significantly on local and national economic conditions. The Company’s success depends on general economic conditions both locally and nationally. Some of our customers are directly impacted by the local economy while others have more national or global business dealings. Some of the factors influencing general economic conditions include inflation, recession and unemployment. Economic conditions can have an impact on the demand of our customers for loans, the ability of some borrowers to repay these loans, availability of deposits and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Recent financial problems in the automobile industry may negatively affect our primary markets. The Company’s primary markets of Louisville and central Kentucky are locations of automotive plants for two major automotive producers. In addition, there are numerous automotive component manufacturers located within and around these markets. Changes to those plants, including closings, could significantly impact the overall local economies of these markets. While the Company is not directly tied to the automobile industry, some of the Company’s customers conduct business with these plants and members of the automobile industry’s supply chain. Due to the number of residents potentially directly affected and depending on the magnitude of these changes, housing, unemployment and overall market conditions could all be negatively impacted. The Company can not quantify the overall negative impacts of any potential change to the market but they could be significant. Recently declining values of real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. The Company offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Most of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in its market area. Adverse changes in the local or national economy could negatively affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans. If borrowers are unable to repay their loans from us and there has been deterioration in the value of the loan collateral, we could experience higher loan losses. Additional increases in loan loss provisions may be necessary in the future. Deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Recent unprecedented market volatility and significant stock market decline could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. Capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year and have been particularly volatile in recent months. These conditions can place downward pressure on credit availability, credit worthiness and the Company’s customers’ inclinations to borrow. A continued or worsening disruption and volatility could negatively impact the Company’s customers’ ability to seek new loans or to repay existing loans. The personal wealth of many of the Company’s borrowers and guarantors has historically added a source of financial strength to those loans and could be negatively impacted by the recent severe market declines. 28 Table of Contents The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Company operations could be harmed by a challenging legal climate. Class action or other litigation against lenders in certain regions or related to particular products, services or practices may arise from time to time, even if the activities subject to complaint are not unlawful. Such claims may be brought, for example, under state or federal consumer protection laws. The damages and penalties claimed in these types of matters can be substantial. The Company may also be adversely affected by the actions of its brokers, or if another company in its industry engages in criticized practices. Negative publicity may result in more regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices, as well as more litigation, which may further increase the Company’s cost of doing business and adversely affect profitability by impeding the Company’s ability to market its products, require the Company to change them or increase the regulatory burdens under which the Company operates. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to Company operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Company conducts its business activities, including sales practices, practices used in origination and servicing operations, the management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and the Company’s protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team and qualified personnel. The Company is dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of its key management personnel who have substantial experience with Company operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which the Company offers services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of its senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on operations, moreover, the Company depends on its account executives and loan officers to attract bank customers by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial and consumer clients, mortgage companies, real estate agents, brokers and others. The Company believes that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves the Company, other members of the manager’s team may follow. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. The Company’s success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as the Company grows. The Company cannot assure you that it will continue to attract or retain such personnel. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security that could impact the Company’s operational capabilities. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrences of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies heavily on the proper functioning of its technology. The Company relies on its computer systems and outside servicers providing technology for much of its business. If computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable, or suffer a breach of security, the Company’s ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which the Company is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company does not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact profitability. Management diligently reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Industry Factors The Company is significantly impacted by the regulatory, fiscal and monetary policies of federal and state governments which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity position and earnings. These policies can materially affect the value of the Company’s financial instruments and can also adversely affect the Company’s customers and their ability to repay their outstanding loans. Also, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or adverse examination findings, could result in significant penalties, negatively impact operations, or result in other sanctions against the Company. The Board of Governors of the FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine, in large part, the Company’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return the Company earns on these loans and investments, all of which impact net interest margin. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels. This regulatory oversight is primarily intended to protect depositors, the DIF and the banking system as a whole, not the stockholders of the Company. Changes in policies, regulations and statutes, or the interpretation thereof, could significantly impact the product offerings of Republic causing the Company to terminate or modify its product offerings in a manner that could materially adversely affect the earnings of the Company. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. Various federal and state regulatory agencies possess cease and desist powers, and other authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. The FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These, and other restrictions, can limit in varying degrees, the manner in which Republic conducts its business. Republic is subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if the Company fails to meet these guidelines the Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Republic and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If Republic fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Republic’s financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If Republic’s fails to maintain well-capitalized status under its regulatory framework, or deemed not well-managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if it should experience certain regulatory violations, Republic’s status as a Financial Holding Company and its related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and its ability to offer certain financial products could be compromised. The Company’s financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted to the extent the Company relies on information that is false, misleading or inaccurate. The Company relies on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by vendors, customers and other parties. In deciding whether to extend credit, including RALs, or enter into transactions with other parties, the Company relies on information furnished by, or on behalf of, customers or entities related to those customers or other parties. 30 Table of Contents Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively impact the Company. When borrowers default on obligations of one or more of their loans, it may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses, as a result of the increased allocation of management time and resources to the subsequent collection efforts. In certain situations where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable “work out” arrangements cannot be reached or performed, the Company may have to charge off loans, either in part or in whole. Prepayment of loans may negatively impact Republic’s business. The Company’s customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within the Company’s customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Company is unable to lend those funds to other customers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, Republic’s interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income would have a negative impact on Republic’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 