Item 1A. Risk Factors. If there is a significant downturn in our region, our credit risk could be adversely affected and result in loss. We conduct business in a small geographic area, and a large percentage of our loans are made in our market area. If the region suffers a significant or prolonged period of economic downturn, there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us. This could result in higher levels of credit-related losses, which could adversely affect our performance. If market interest rates decrease, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. The direction and speed of interest rate changes affect our net interest margin and net interest income. In a period of declining interest rates, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term because our interest-earning assets (loans) reprice sooner than our interest-bearing liabilities (deposits). If we do not maintain our capital requirements and our status as a “well-capitalized” bank, there could be an adverse effect on the way in which we do business and in the confidence of our customers. The Bank is subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If the Bank fails to meet the capital adequacy guidelines for a “well-capitalized” bank, it could increase the regulatory scrutiny for the Bank and the Company, increase our FDIC insurance premiums, and could lead to a decline in the confidence that our customers have in us and a reduction in the demand for our products and services. 13 Table of Contents If the large bank competition increases or focuses more heavily on our market, our business could suffer. Financial services in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. Additionally, our primary competition is with large banks, who can achieve greater economies of scale due to their financial strength and marketing clout. If these large banks focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. If we are not in compliance with governmental regulation, we can be subject to fines, penalties, or restrictions of our business. Our business is subject to stringent regulation by federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. We have established policies, procedures and systems that are designed to comply with these regulatory and operational risk requirements. However, as a financial services institution, we face complexity and costs related to our compliance efforts. We also face the potential for loss resulting from failed or inadequate internal processes and from external events, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or capital requirements could affect our ability to attract or maintain customers or maintain access to capital markets, or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits. If the disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. Natural or man-made disasters, such as fires, storms, terrorist or military actions could cause damage to our physical facilities, or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing or check settlements. In addition, our vendors could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us or the vendors with whom we do business, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We depend on the services of our key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel would disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. Competition for qualified employees is intense and our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of experience, skills and attributes required in executing our business model. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may identify a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting that may adversely affect our ability to properly account for non-routine transactions. As we have grown and expanded, we have acquired and added, and expect to continue to acquire and add, businesses and other activities that complement our core commercial and retail banking functions. Such expansions or possible acquisitions may involve complex operational and financial reporting issues that can impact management’s internal control system. While we make every effort to thoroughly understand any new activity or acquired entity’s business processes, we can give no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our internal controls over the Company as we integrate the new activity and/or process into our Company. 14 Table of Contents If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth and our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of net income, additional deposits, and investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities in the public market will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 