Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to differ materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The failure by our businesses to respond appropriately to changing customer preferences and demand for new products or product enhancements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to increase our sales and earnings depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our existing products, the successful introduction of new products, growth of consumer discretionary spending, our ability to recruit new independent promoters and sales consultants, sourcing of raw materials and demand-driven increases in production and distribution capacity. Sales of ViSalus's weight-management products, nutritional supplements and energy drinks, PartyLite's candles and accessories and Miles Kimball's consumer products fluctuate according to changes in customer preferences. If our businesses are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing preferences, our sales may decline, and our businesses may be faced with excess inventories. ViSalus's weight-management products represented a substantial portion of its net sales in 2012. If customer demand for ViSalus's weight-management products decreased significantly, or ViSalus ceased offering weight-management products without a suitable replacement, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, if our businesses miscalculate customer tastes and are no longer able to offer products that appeal to their customers, their brand images may suffer and sales and earnings would decline. The ability of our businesses to respond to changing customer preferences and demand for new products or product enhancements and to manage their inventories properly is an important factor in their operations. The nature of their products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave them vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Excess or obsolete inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our success depends in part on the ability of our businesses to anticipate and respond to these changes, and they may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. The ability of our businesses to meet future product demand will depend upon their success in sourcing adequate supplies of their products, bringing new production and distribution capacity on-line in a timely manner, improving their ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly, improving customer service-oriented management information systems, and training, motivating and managing new employees. The failure of any of the above could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently, concerns over the global economy, including the current financial crisis in Europe (including concerns that certain European countries may default in payments due on their national debt) and the resulting economic uncertainty, as well as concerns over unemployment, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. A continued or protracted downturn in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products. Factors that could affect consumers' willingness to make such discretionary purchases include general business conditions, levels of employment, energy costs, interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence. A reduction in consumer spending could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. The occurrence of these events could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.ViSalus and PartyLite depend on sales by their independent sales force to drive their businesses, and their failure to continue to recruit, retain and motivate promoters and consultants would harm their business and our financial condition and results of operations. ViSalus markets its products and the Challenge through its independent promoters using a network marketing model and PartyLite markets its products through its independent consultants using a party plan direct selling model. Both of these marketing systems depend upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of promoters and/or consultants to offset frequent turnover. ViSalus's and PartyLite's ability to recruit and retain promoters and consultants depend on their prominence within the competitive environment among direct selling companies and on the general labor market, unemployment levels, economic conditions and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. ViSalus's and PartyLite's ability to motivate their independent sales forces depends, in large part, upon the effectiveness of their compensation and promotional programs, the competitiveness of their compensation programs compared with other direct selling companies and the successful introduction of new products. The failure by either or both of ViSalus or PartyLite to recruit, retain and motivate 14Return to Toppromoters and consultants could negatively impact sales of their products, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that the growth rate of ViSalus's independent promoter sales force that it achieved in the first half of 2012 will moderate over time. If this occurs, our business performance will become increasingly dependent on our ability to retain and motivate existing promoters and consultants. A number of other companies with direct selling models similar to those of ViSalus and PartyLite that achieved early success have since seen their sales forces decline, in some cases precipitously. There is no guarantee that ViSalus and PartyLite will not experience a similar erosion of their independent promoter and consultant sales forces. Adverse publicity associated with our products, ingredients, promoters, programs or network marketing business model, or those of similar companies, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Companies that market their products to consumers through a network of promoters, which we refer to as a “network marketing business model,” can be the subject of negative commentary. For example, in late 2012, a hedge fund manager publicly raised allegations regarding the legality of Herbalife's network marketing program and announced that his fund had taken a significant short position regarding Herbalife's common shares, leading to intense public scrutiny of Herbalife's business and significant volatility in their stock price. We expect that negative publicity will, from time to time, continue to negatively impact our business in particular markets and may adversely affect our share price. This negative commentary can spread inaccurate or incomplete information about the direct-sales industry in general or our products, ingredients, promoters or programs in particular. The number of our customers and promoters/consultants and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly affected by the public's perception of us and similar companies. This perception is dependent upon opinions concerning: •the safety, quality, effectiveness and taste of our products and ingredients; •the safety, quality, effectiveness and taste of similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies; •our independent sales forces; •our promotional and compensation programs; and •the direct selling business in general, including the operations of other direct selling companies.Adverse publicity concerning any actual or purported failure by our direct selling businesses or their promoters to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of our direct selling businesses, the licensing of their products for sale in their target markets or other aspects of their business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on our business and could negatively affect our direct selling businesses' ability to recruit, motivate and retain promoters and consultants, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. In addition, our promoters', consultants' and consumers' perception of the safety, quality, effectiveness and taste of our products and ingredients, as well as similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies, could be significantly influenced by media attention, publicized scientific research or findings, widespread recalls or product liability claims or other publicity concerning our products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate or resulting from consumers' use or misuse of products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or any similar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of ViSalus's products or similar products or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their use could lead to lawsuits or other legal challenges and could negatively impact ViSalus's and our reputation and the market demand for our products, thus harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since we cannot exert the same level of influence or control over our promoters and consultants as we could if they were our own employees, we may be unable to enforce compliance with our policies and procedures, which could result in claims against us that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. ViSalus's promoters and PartyLite's consultants are independent contractors and, accordingly, neither ViSalus nor PartyLite is in a position to provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as it could if they were their employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that ViSalus's and PartyLite's promoters and consultants will participate in their marketing strategies or plans, accept their introduction of new products or comply with their policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulate our businesses, products and programs. While we have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to govern promoter and consultant conduct so that they comply with this regulatory regime, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of promoters and consultants and their 15Return to Topindependent status. Violations by our promoters or consultants of applicable laws or of our policies and procedures could reflect negatively on our products and operations and harm our business reputation or lead to the imposition of penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to retain our existing customers or attract new customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. ViSalus and PartyLite are customer-driven businesses, and the size of their customer bases and the amount that their customers spend on their products are critical to their success. Increases in sales to customers are driven primarily by the recruitment of new customers and retention of existing customers, rather than through increases in the average monthly expenditures of customers. We anticipate that ViSalus's customer growth rate will decline over time as the size of its customer base increases, and if it achieves higher market penetration rates. To the extent ViSalus's customer growth rate slows, our business performance will become increasingly dependent on our ability to retain customers and increase their average monthly expenditures. A number of other companies using a direct marketing business model that achieved early success have since seen their customer bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. There is no guarantee that ViSalus and PartyLite will not experience a similar erosion of their customer bases or product purchase levels. If ViSalus and PartyLite are unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers, their sales could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have guaranteed ViSalus's obligation to redeem its preferred stock in December 2017, and if we and ViSalus are unable to redeem the preferred stock our ownership in ViSalus will decrease to less than 5%, which would significantly decrease our sales, earnings and cash flow.In December 2012, in connection with our phased acquisition of ViSalus, ViSalus issued shares of its redeemable convertible preferred stock to the minority owners of ViSalus. ViSalus has agreed to redeem all of the shares of preferred stock on December 31, 2017, which date can be extended with the consent of holders of a majority of the voting power of the preferred stock, for $143.2 million, unless prior to such date ViSalus has made an initial public offering of its common stock with a valuation above a certain threshold. We have guaranteed the performance by ViSalus of its redemption obligation. In the event that ViSalus does not redeem the preferred shares, each of the preferred shares will automatically become convertible into 100 shares of common stock of ViSalus. If all of the preferred stock converted into 100 shares of common stock of ViSalus, our ownership interest in ViSalus would be reduced to approximately 4% of ViSalus, which would significantly decrease our sales, earnings and cash flows.All of our businesses are subject to risks from increased competition, and our failure to maintain our competitive position could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.ViSalus's business of marketing and selling weight-management products, nutritional supplements and energy drinks, PartyLite's business of selling candles and accessories and Miles Kimball's business of selling a wide variety of consumer products through catalogs and the internet are highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide markets for these products are highly fragmented, with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. In addition, we anticipate that we will be subject to increasing competition in the future from sellers that utilize electronic commerce. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and sales resources, greater name recognition, larger established customer bases, and better-developed distribution channels than our businesses. Our current or future competitors may be able to develop products that are comparable or superior to those that we offer, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends and standards or customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than our businesses. For example, ViSalus's Vi-shape meal replacement product constitutes a significant portion of its sales, and if its competitors develop other weight-management products, nutritional supplements or energy drinks that become more popular than the Vi-Shape meal replacement, demand for ViSalus's products could be reduced. Moreover, certain competitors focus on a single geographic or product market and attempt to gain or maintain market share solely on the basis of price. Accordingly, our businesses may not be able to compete effectively in their markets and competition may intensify. Competitors in ViSalus's target product market include Herbalife Ltd. and retail establishments such as Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig, General Nutrition Centers and retail pharmacies. In addition, because the industries in which our businesses operate are not particularly capital intensive or otherwise subject to high barriers to entry, it is relatively easy for new competitors to emerge to compete with us for promoters and customers.We are also subject to significant competition for the recruitment of promoters from other network marketing organizations, including those that market weight-management products, nutritional supplements and energy drinks, candles and home accessories, as well as other types of products. Our competitors for the recruitment of promoters include direct-selling 16Return to Topcompanies such as Herbalife, Avon, Tupperware, Nu Skin, USANA, Nature's Sunshine, Mannatech, Natura, Amorepacific, Amway, Noevir, Shaklee and Reliv. Furthermore, the fact that our promoters and consultants may easily enter and exit their programs contributes to the level of competition that they face. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining promoters and consultants through attractive compensation plans, the maintenance of attractive product portfolios and other incentives. If our businesses are unable to compete effectively in their markets, if competition in their markets intensifies or if we are unable to recruit and retain promoters and consultants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.Our promotional and compensation programs are subject to a number of federal, state and foreign regulations. The failure of our promotional and compensation programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general.The FTC exercises jurisdiction over product advertising in general and advertising of conventional foods and dietary supplements in particular and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against companies for false and misleading claims and for failure to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising. The FTC also regulates promotional offers, including purported “savings” from the regular or suggested retail price of products. In the event that the FTC pursues an enforcement action against any of our businesses, our businesses could be subject to consent decrees that could limit their ability to make certain claims with respect to their products and require them to pay civil penalties. The National Advertising Division, which we refer to as the “NAD,” of the Council of Better Business Bureaus serves as an industry-sponsored self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims. The system also empowers the NAD to challenge claims that the NAD believes to be misleading, including product benefit claims and purported sales or other discounts off of “regular” prices. The NAD has no independent enforcement authority. However, it can refer cases to the FTC for further action. Failures by any of our businesses to comply with rules, consent decrees and applicable regulations could occur from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary penalties. In addition, our promotional and compensation programs are subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the FTC and various state agencies in the United States and the equivalent provincial and federal government agencies in Canada and in the other countries in which our businesses operate. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our network marketing and party plan programs could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations. Regulations applicable to direct selling organizations generally are directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes, by ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within an organization is based on sales of the organization's products rather than investments in the organization or other non-retail, non-product sales related criteria. The regulatory requirements concerning network marketing programs do not include “bright line” rules, and thus, even in jurisdictions where we believe that our promotional and compensation programs are in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, they are subject to the risk that these laws or regulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. The failure of our promotional and compensation programs to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general. In general, a “pyramid scheme” is defined as an arrangement in which new participants are required to pay a fee to participate in the organization and then receive compensation primarily for recruiting other persons to participate, either directly or through sales of goods or services that are merely disguised payments for recruiting others. Such schemes are illegal because, without legitimate sales of goods or services to support the organization's continued existence, new participants are exposed to the loss of the fee paid to participate in the scheme. The application of these laws and regulations to a given set of business practices is inherently fact-based and, therefore, is subject to interpretation by applicable enforcement authorities. Our promoters and consultants are paid by commissions based on sales of their products to bona fide purchasers, and for this and other reasons we do not believe that we are subject to laws regulating pyramid schemes. However, even though we believe that our distribution practices are currently in compliance with, or exempt from, these laws and regulations, there is a risk that a governmental agency or court could disagree with our assessment or that these laws and regulations could change, which may require ViSalus or PartyLite to alter their distribution model or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or result in other costs or fines, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are also federal, state and provincial laws of general application, such as the FTC Act and state or provincial unfair and deceptive trade practices laws that could potentially be invoked to challenge our advertising, compensation practices, or recruitment techniques. In particular, our recruiting efforts include promotional materials for recruits that describe the potential opportunity available to them if they become promoters or consultants. These materials, as well as our other recruiting efforts and those of promoters, are subject to scrutiny by the FTC and state and provincial enforcement authorities with respect to 17Return to Topmisleading statements, including misleading earnings claims made to convince potential new recruits to become promoters. If claims or recruiting techniques used by ViSalus or PartyLite or by their promoters or consultants are deemed to be misleading, it could result in violations of the FTC Act or comparable state and provincial statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices or result in reputational harm, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our promoters and consultants, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Earnings of promoters and consultants are subject to taxation, and, in some instances, legislation or governmental regulations impose obligations on ViSalus and PartyLite to collect or pay taxes, such as value-added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we may be subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of new liabilities being imposed for social security and similar taxes with respect to promoters or consultants. If local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require ViSalus or PartyLite to treat promoters or consultants as employees, or if promoters or consultants are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors or agents under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social charges and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus related assessments and penalties, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose the services of key employees, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed.We depend on the continued services of Robert B. Goergen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., our President and Chief Operating Officer and President PartyLite Worldwide; and Robert H. Barghaus, our Chief Financial Officer, as well as the continued services of Ryan Blair, the Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of ViSalus, and Blake Mallen, the Chief Marketing Officer and co-founder of ViSalus. In addition, ViSalus and PartyLite depend upon the continued services of the other members of their current senior management teams, including the relationships that they have developed with ViSalus's and PartyLite's senior independent promoters and consultants. The loss or departure of these key employees could negatively impact ViSalus's and PartyLite's relationship with their senior independent promoters and consultants and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these key employees do not remain with us, our business could suffer. The loss of such key employees could negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our continued success will also be dependent upon our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified personnel to meet our needs. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may require an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to maintain proper relations and market our products. We face diverse risks in our international business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. For 2012, revenue from outside the United States was 40% of our total revenue. We expect international sales to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Due to our reliance on sales to customers outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: •the acceptability of our products, sales models and compensation programs to international consumers; •United States and foreign government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions on imports to or from the United States;•foreign government taxes and regulations, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to the United States;•the laws and policies of the United States, Canada and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes);•foreign employment and labor laws, regulations and restrictions;•difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and difficulty in maintaining quality control;•adverse fluctuations in world currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any interest rate swap or other hedging activities we undertake;•political instability, natural disasters, health crises, war or events of terrorism; •transportation costs and delays; and •the strength of international economies. 18Return to TopWe also intend to continue to evaluate international markets in which to expand our operations, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully be able to do so, for the reasons set forth above or for any other reason.The loss by ViSalus of a leading promoter, together with his or her associated sales organization, or the loss of a significant number of promoters for any reason, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales generated by a small number of promoters, together with their associated sales organizations, represent a majority of ViSalus's net sales, and there are a number of promoters whose generated sales, together with those of their sales organizations, represent in excess of 10% of ViSalus's net sales. In particular, sales generated by Nick Sarnicola, one of ViSalus's founders and currently a promoter, together with his wife, and their sales organizations and customers marketed to by him and members of his sales organization, represented a substantial percentage of ViSalus's net sales in 2012. The loss by ViSalus of one or more of its leading promoters, together with the associated sales organization, or the loss of a significant number of promoters for any reason, could negatively impact sales of ViSalus's products, impair the ability to recruit new promoters or consultants and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In general, ViSalus does not have non-competition arrangements with its promoters that would prohibit them from promoting competing products if they terminate their relationship. Pursuant to the agreement that all of ViSalus's promoters must sign, until one year after the promoter gives written notice of termination of the agreement or ViSalus terminates the agreement, the promoter is not permitted to solicit or recruit ViSalus promoters or employees (whether active or inactive) to participate in any other network marketing program. We cannot ensure that ViSalus's promoters will abide by these non-solicitation obligations or that we will be able to enforce them. If ViSalus's promoters do not abide by these non-solicitation obligations or if we are unable to enforce them, our competitive position may be compromised, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.ViSalus is affected by extensive laws and governmental regulations, and its failure to comply with those laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. ViSalus is affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state, provincial and local levels, and include regulations relating to: •the formulation, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, marketing, promotion, importation, exportation, sale and storage of dietary supplement and food products; •dietary supplement and food product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising, as well as claims and advertising by promoters and consultants, for which we may be held responsible; and •promotional and compensation programs. In addition, promoters in certain jurisdictions are required to obtain licenses in order to market ViSalus products. There can be no assurance that ViSalus or its promoters are, or will continue to be, in compliance with all of these regulations, and the failure by ViSalus or its promoters to comply with these regulations or new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of ViSalus's products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. The failure of ViSalus's products to comply with current or newly adopted regulations, which may be more stringent than current regulations, could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general.ViSalus's products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other U.S. federal and state authorities as foods, and in many instances, the subset of foods referred to as “dietary supplements.” Any failure to comply with such regulations, or any determinations by the FDA that any of ViSalus's products do not meet adequate safety standards or that its labeling or marketing claims violate applicable requirements, could prevent ViSalus from marketing particular products or subject it to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. ViSalus's products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other U.S. federal and state authorities as foods, and in many instances, the subset of foods referred to as “dietary supplements.” The FDA regulates, among other things, the composition, safety, labeling and marketing of conventional foods and dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, herbs and other dietary ingredients for human use). While ViSalus's products as they are currently marketed are not required to obtain pre-market approval from the FDA, ViSalus must submit a new dietary ingredient notification to the FDA at least 75 days before the initial marketing of any dietary supplement that contains a new dietary ingredient. The FDA may find unacceptable the evidence of safety for any new dietary supplement ViSalus wishes to market, may determine that a particular dietary 19Return to Topsupplement or ingredient that ViSalus currently markets presents an unacceptable health risk, or may determine that a particular claim or statement of nutritional support that ViSalus uses to support the marketing of a food or dietary supplement conflicts with FDA regulations regarding labeling claims. Any of these actions could prevent ViSalus from marketing particular products or subject it to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. The FDA could also require ViSalus to remove a particular product from the market based on safety issues or a failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to ViSalus, including lost revenues from any additional products that it removes from the market, any of which could be material. Any product recalls or removals could also lead to liability, including consumer class action lawsuits, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require unanticipated company expenditures to address the reformulation of some products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of some products not able to be reformulated, additional recordkeeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of some products, additional or different labeling standards, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. For example, in 2006, Congress enacted legislation to impose adverse event reporting and recordkeeping requirements for dietary supplements, and in 2007, the FDA issued a final rule on current Good Manufacturing Practices, creating new requirements for manufacturing, packaging and storing dietary ingredients and dietary supplements. In the same year, the “Reportable Food Registry,” which we refer to as the “RFR,” was established by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, which requires food companies and other “responsible parties” to file a report through the RFR electronic portal when there is a reasonable probability that the use of, or exposure to, an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. Recently, in 2011, the FDA issued a draft guidance document expanding the FDA's previous interpretation of the regulatory requirements surrounding new dietary ingredient notifications and related issues, and Congress enacted new food safety legislation that has increased the FDA's authority over food facilities. ViSalus may not be able to comply with the new requirements or other future legislation, rules or guidance documents without incurring additional expenses, which could be significant. Although we intend that ViSalus's products be promoted in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, we cannot ensure that aspects of ViSalus's operations will not be reviewed and challenged by regulatory authorities and if challenged, that ViSalus would prevail. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that new laws or regulations, or industry standards and guidelines, governing weight management, nutritional supplements, or energy drinks will not be enacted in the future, which will result in lost sales. The FTC, state attorneys general, Canadian provincial and federal authorities, and state consumer protection agencies in the United States regulate fitness, weight loss and nutritional product-advertising claims and require that claims be supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence, where appropriate. The FTC and state attorneys general actively investigate and enforce claims made in weight management and nutritional supplement product advertisements, including for making claims that are too good to be true. ViSalus's marketing materials occasionally rely upon consumer testimonials reporting or depicting specific results achieved by using the product or service generally. Published FTC guidelines state that such claims will be interpreted to mean that the endorser's experience is what others typically can expect to achieve. The FTC requires that advertisers possess adequate proof to back up that claim before making it, or clearly and conspicuously disclose the generally expected performance in the depicted circumstances. The FTC also requires that any material connections between an endorser must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed to consumers at the time of the endorsement. Although we intend that ViSalus's products be promoted in compliance with these and all applicable regulatory requirements, and specifically intend to avoid making any express weight loss claims in marketing and other promotional material provided to ViSalus's independent promoters, we cannot ensure that aspects of ViSalus's operations will not be reviewed and challenged by these regulatory authorities and if challenged, that ViSalus would prevail. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that new laws or regulations, or industry standards and guidelines, governing weight management, nutritional supplements, or energy drinks will not be enacted in the future, resulting in lost sales. These same laws, regulations, and government guidelines for enforcement and compliance apply to ViSalus's independent promoters. While ViSalus trains and attempts to monitor promoters' marketing practices and materials, we cannot ensure that their promotional activities comply with the foregoing prohibitions on unfair and deceptive trade practices. If ViSalus's promoters are found responsible for violating such restrictions, there can be no assurance that ViSalus could not be held responsible for their conduct. 20Return to TopIf ViSalus or its promoters fail to comply with advertising and labeling laws, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Although the physical labeling of ViSalus's products is not within the control of its promoters, ViSalus's promoters must nevertheless advertise the products in compliance with the extensive regulations governing the promotion and labeling of products intended for human consumption. ViSalus's products are sold principally as conventional foods and dietary supplements and are subject to rigorous FDA and related legal regimens limiting the types of health-benefit claims that can be made for their products. Claims that a product can treat, prevent or cure a disease, which we refer to as “therapeutic claims,” for example, are not permitted for these products. While ViSalus trains its promoters and attempts to monitor their marketing materials, we cannot ensure that all such materials comply with bans on therapeutic claims. If ViSalus or its promoters fail to comply with these restrictions, then ViSalus and its promoters could be subjected to claims, financial penalties and relabeling requirements, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the FTC prohibits promoters and endorsers from making any claims for products that are not substantiated with competent and reliable evidence. Although we expect that ViSalus's responsibility for the actions of its promoters in such an instance would be dependent on a determination that ViSalus either controlled or condoned a non-compliant advertising practice, there can be no assurance that ViSalus could not be held responsible for the actions of its promoters.There can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us, successfully integrate acquired operations or that companies we acquire will perform as anticipated.We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions in addition to internal growth. In the past several years, we increased our ownership in ViSalus. There can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or be able to finance acquisitions. We also may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to these acquisitions or in managing strategic investments. Additionally, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. We will not be required to submit acquisitions for stockholder approval, except in certain situations that have not applied to any of our acquisitions and that we do not expect to apply to any future acquisitions. In addition, accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which we acquire new businesses.If our businesses fail to protect their intellectual property, then our ability to compete could be negatively affected, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our businesses attempt to protect their intellectual property rights, both in the United States and elsewhere, through a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. The failure by our businesses to obtain or maintain adequate protection of their intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. Even if granted, the patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe on our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Many patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of formulas or products covered by any patent application we may make or that we will be the first to file patent applications on such formulas or products. Because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, there is also a risk that we could adopt a formula without knowledge of a pending patent application, which would infringe a third party patent once that patent is issued. We also rely on unpatented proprietary information related to some of our formulas and products. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to these unpatented formulas or products. In Canada, the medicinal ingredients in ViSalus's products must be disclosed by quantity. We also possess trade secret rights in our promoter/consultant and customer lists and related contact information. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot ensure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary and/or secret nature of our formulas and products, we could be materially adversely affected. Further, loss of protection for our 21Return to Toppromoter, consultant and customer lists could harm our ability to recruit and retain promoters, consultants or customers, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own the material trademarks and trade-name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our products in the markets where those products are sold. We rely on these trademarks, trade names, trade dress and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade-name protection against third parties or otherwise successfully defending against a challenge to our trademarks or trade names. In addition, the laws of Canada and elsewhere may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In the event that our trademarks or trade names are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, remove products from the market or pay a settlement, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands and building goodwill in these new brands, trademarks and trade names. Further, we cannot ensure that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, pass off themselves or their goods and services as being ours or associated with ours or otherwise depreciate the value of the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. Infringement of our trademarks or trade names, passing off by a competitor or depreciating the goodwill associated with our trademarks could impair the goodwill associated with our brands and harm our reputation, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties' intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing, selling or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.Since our businesses rely on independent third parties for the manufacture and supply of many of their products, if these third parties fail to reliably supply products at required levels of quality, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. All of ViSalus's products are manufactured and supplied by third-party manufacturers in the United States based on their formulas (whether owned or licensed). PartyLite manufactures all of its candles, but all of its accessories are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, primarily based overseas. All of Miles Kimball's products are manufactured and supplied by third-party manufacturers, primarily based overseas. If any of the third-party manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide products in required volumes, at suitable quality levels, or if these suppliers fail to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements imposed on the manufacturers of food and nutritional supplements, including the FDA's current good manufacturing practices, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of products would result in loss of sales, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of reliance on third-party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. ViSalus markets products designed for human consumption and PartyLite and Miles Kimball primarily market products for consumer use, although some of PartyLite's and Miles Kimball's products are also intended for human consumption. As such, they may be subject to product liability claims if the use of their products is alleged to have resulted in injury to consumers, whether from consumption or otherwise. We cannot ensure that any of their products will never be associated with consumer injury. In addition, our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers that also provide raw materials, which prevent us from having full control over the ingredients contained in our products. As a marketer of weight-management products, nutritional supplements and energy drinks, ViSalus may be subjected to other product-liability claims, including claims related to the use of these products in an inappropriate manner or by inappropriate populations. Potential risks include allegations of inadequate instructions as to their uses, inadequate warnings concerning side effects and inadequate information regarding potential interactions with other substances. Although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have substantial retentions or deductibles for which we are responsible. Product liability claims in excess of 22Return to Topapplicable insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may be subjected to product liability claims that relate to the use of candles and claims that candle products include inadequate instructions as to their uses or inadequate warnings concerning side effects. It is possible that widespread product liability claims could increase our costs, and adversely affect our revenues and income. In addition to the above, any product liability claim brought against any of our businesses, with or without merit, could result in an increase of our product liability insurance rates. Insurance coverage varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, such liability claims could cause our consumers to lose confidence in our products and stop purchasing our products, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon our information-technology systems, and if we experience interruptions in these systems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our businesses are increasingly dependent on information-technology systems to operate their websites, communicate with their independent promoters and consultants, process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations, including information technology that they license from third parties. There is no guarantee that our businesses will continue to have access to these third-party information-technology systems after the current license agreements expire, and if they do not obtain licenses to use effective replacement information-technology systems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Previously, our businesses have experienced interruptions resulting from upgrades to certain of their information-technology systems that temporarily reduced the effectiveness of their operations. Our information-technology systems depend on global communication providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have experienced system failures in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information-technology systems and inhibit internal operations, the ability to provide customer service or the ability of customers or sales personnel to access our information systems. The Internet plays a major role in our interaction with customers and promoters and consultants. Risks such as changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy regulations are key concerns related to the Internet. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties could reduce sales, increase costs and damage our relationships. Management uses information systems to support decision-making and to monitor business performance. We may fail to generate accurate financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management. Failure to adopt systematic procedures to maintain quality information-technology general controls could impact management's decision-making and performance monitoring, which could disrupt our business. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controls such as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operate our business could be limited. The circumvention of our security measures could allow data loss or misappropriation of confidential or proprietary information, including that of third parties such as promoters, consultants and customers, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or otherwise harm our reputation and business. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by such breaches. Any actual security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability under various laws and regulations. In addition, employee error or malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of any such information could result in disclosure to third parties. If this should occur we could incur significant expenses addressing such problems. Since we collect and store customer, promoter and vendor information, including in some cases credit card information, these risks are heightened. User growth and engagement on mobile devices depend upon effective operation of mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. ViSalus has recently launched a new Vi-Net Mobile application suite, which allows promoters and customers to access their Vi-Net accounts and place orders for customers on their smartphones. There is no guarantee that the Vi-Net Mobile application 23Return to Topsuite will continue to be interoperable with popular mobile operating systems that ViSalus does not control, such as Android, Blackberry and iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade ViSalus's products' functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect Vi-Net Mobile application suite usage. Additionally, in order to deliver high-quality mobile products, it is important that ViSalus's products work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards that ViSalus does not control. ViSalus may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, or standards. If it is more difficult for ViSalus's users to access and use the Vi-Net Mobile application suite on their mobile devices, or if ViSalus's users choose not to access or use the Vi-Net Mobile application suite on their mobile devices or use mobile products that do not offer access to the Vi-Net Mobile application suite, ViSalus's customer and independent promoter growth and retention could be harmed.Our business is susceptible to fraud, including credit card and debit card fraud. Our customers and promoters/consultants typically pay for their orders with debit or credit cards. Our reputation, business and results of operations could be negatively impacted if we experience credit card and debit card fraud. Failure to adequately detect and avoid fraudulent credit card and debit card transactions could cause our businesses to lose their ability to accept credit cards or debit cards as forms of payment and/or result in charge-backs of the fraudulently charged amounts and/or significantly decrease revenues. Furthermore, credit card and debit card fraud may lessen customers' and promoters' and consultants' willingness to purchase products. For this reason, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our storage of user and employee data subject us to a number of federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, storage, handling, or sharing of personal data. We collect, handle, store and disclose personal data collected from users of our websites and mobile applications, as well as our employees, independent promoters/consultants, and potential and actual purchasers of our products. In this regard, we are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state, and potentially foreign, laws and regulations. The FTC, state attorneys general, and foreign data protection and consumer protection authorities, actively investigate and enforce compliance with laws and regulations governing fair information practices, as they are evolving in practice and being tested in courts. These laws, including the FTC Act, could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business, particularly if we are deemed to engage in unfair or deceptive trade practices with regard to our collection, storage, handling, or sharing of personal data. Risks attendant to our conduct of business on the Internet and data collection practices may involve user or employee privacy, data protection, electronic contracts, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. The adoption of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations regarding the storage, handling, collection, and sharing of personal data may result in significant compliance costs or otherwise negatively impact our business. Our independent promoters and consultants also collect, store, handle, and process personal data. A violation of law or fair information practices by an independent promoter or consultant could cause us financial or reputational harm. Our profitability may be affected by shortages or increases in the cost of raw materials. Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in production requirements, weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. Ingredients for ViSalus's weight-management products, nutritional supplements and energy drinks are sourced from a variety of third-party manufacturers. PartyLite sources petroleum based paraffin wax (which is used to manufacture candles) from several suppliers. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of paraffin, it is possible that fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse effect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of PartyLite's products. In recent years, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin and paper, negatively impacted our profitability. In addition, a number of governmental authorities in the United States and abroad have introduced or are contemplating enacting legal requirements, including emissions limitations, cap and trade systems and other measures to reduce production of greenhouse gases, in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These measures may have an indirect effect on us by affecting the prices of products made from fossil fuels, including paraffin. Given the wide range of potential future climate change regulations and their effects on these raw materials, the potential indirect impact to our operations is uncertain. In addition, climate change might contribute to severe weather in the locations where fossil fuel based raw materials are produced, such as increased hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, which could disrupt the production, availability or pricing of these raw materials.Costs of ingredients are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, changes in production requirements, and weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. Continued volatility in the prices of raw materials 24Return to Topcould increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability. Moreover, ViSalus and PartyLite may not be able to implement price increases for products to cover any increased costs, and any price increases they do implement may result in lower sales volumes. If our businesses are not successful in managing ingredient costs, if they are unable to increase their prices to cover increased costs or if such price increases reduce their sales volume, then such increases could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: •the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; •adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •changes in available tax credits; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; •changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; and •penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. The turmoil in the financial markets in recent years could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments and could result in additional impairments to our businesses.The turmoil in the financial markets in recent years could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments and could result in additional impairments to our businesses. We may need to obtain financing to repay our $71.8 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due November 2013. United States and global credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, in recent years equity markets have experienced rapid and wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our businesses. If we are unable to obtain financing to repay the Senior Notes or to fund our businesses, if necessary, our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings by the agencies would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. In the event current market conditions continue we will more than likely be subject to higher interest costs than we are currently incurring and may be required to provide security to guarantee such borrowings. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain unfunded borrowings in that amount, which may require us to seek other forms of financing, such as term debt, at higher interest rates and with additional expenses. In addition, we may be subject to future impairments of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventories, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, if the valuation of these assets or businesses declines.As our periodic results of operations may fluctuate, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our periodic results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our periodic results of operations may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including those listed below, many of which are outside of our control: •demand for and market acceptance of our products; •our ability to recruit, retain and motivate promoters/consultants and customers; •the timing and success of introductions of new products by us or our competitors; •the strength of the economy; •changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; •competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors;•the impact of seasonality on our business; •the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development or introducing new solutions; and •the timing of our events, including ViSalus's annual Vitality event and PartyLite's national conferences. 25Return to TopThese factors, among others, make business forecasting difficult, may cause quarter to quarter fluctuations in our results of operations and may impair our ability to predict financial results accurately, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Therefore, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter or year as an indication of future performance. Furthermore, period to period comparisons of our results of operations may not be as meaningful for our company as they may be for other public companies.Miles Kimball's profitability could be adversely affected by increased mailing and shipping costs.Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. Future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce Miles Kimball's profitability to the extent that it is unable to pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog circulations. Miles Kimball's results could be adversely affected by the United States Postal Service's decision to end Saturday mail delivery.The United States Postal Service has announced plans to transition to a new delivery schedule during August 2013 that would eliminate catalog and some package deliveries on Saturdays. This decision may make catalog purchases less attractive to consumers, which may adversely impact Miles Kimball's results to the extent that the elimination of Saturday mail delivery results in a reduction in orders placed.The operation of Miles Kimball's credit program, including higher than expected rates of customer defaults, could adversely affect Miles Kimball's sales and earnings and impact its cash flow from operations.Miles Kimball allows some of its customers to purchase products and pay for them with monthly payments over time, which impacts Miles Kimball's working capital requirements and cash flow from operations. Although customers are selected and dollar limits on their purchases under the program are set using parameters that seek to ensure that most customers will be able to make the monthly payments under the program, some customers default on their obligations under the program and there is a risk that defaults may occur in larger than anticipated numbers. In addition the program may become subject to regulatory regimes including, but not limited to, regulations that might be issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The operation of the credit program and the application of such regulatory regimes or changes to them, if either occurs, may affect Miles Kimball's sales and/or financial performance.Our stock price may be affected by speculative trading, including by those shorting our stock.As of February 28, 2013, the New York Stock Exchange reported a short interest of approximately 78% of our public float, which was one of the most heavily shorted stocks as a percentage of public float in the S&P 1500 and on the NYSE. It is possible that the NYSE short interest reporting system does not fully capture the total short interest and that it could be larger. Short sellers expect to make a profit if our common stock declines in value, and their actions and their public statements may cause volatility in our stock price. The existence of such a significant short interest position may lead to continued volatility. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a stockholder's investment to decline rapidly.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us. We are not currently followed by securities or industry analysts, and there can be no assurance that any analysts will begin to follow us. In the event that securities or industry analysts begin to cover us, we will not have any control over them or the reports that they may issue. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates in the future or one or more of the analysts who cover us at such time downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. Since we are not currently followed by analysts, we do not have significant visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. If analysts begin to cover us and one or more of such analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, our share price or trading volume may decline.26Return to TopIf we fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the market may have reduced confidence in our reported financial information.We must continue to document, test, monitor, and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will continue to perform the documentation and evaluations needed to comply with Section 404. If during this process our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, which may cause market participants to have reduced confidence in our reported financial condition.27Return to TopItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.