Item 1A. Risk Factors. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in its business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. The value or market price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and an investor could lose all or part of their investment. There are factors, many beyond the Company’s control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of the Company. Some of these factors are described below, however many are described in the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ACCOUNTING POLICIES/ESTIMATES, ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Company’s accounting policies and estimates are critical components of the Company’s presentation of its financial statements. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different than amounts previously estimated. Management has identified several accounting policies and estimates as being critical to the presentation of the Company’s financial statements. The Company’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many accounting policies and methods in order to comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management may select an accounting policy which might be reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the Company’s reporting different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These policies are described in Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” The Bank may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce its earnings. The Bank performed its annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2013 as of September 30, 2013. The evaluation of the fair value of goodwill requires management judgment. If management’s judgment was incorrect and an impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, the Bank would be required to write down its assets resulting in a charge to earnings, which would adversely affect its results of operations, perhaps materially. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company’s financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. For example, the FASB has proposed new accounting standards related to fair value accounting and accounting for leases that could materially change the Company’s financial statements in the future. In addition, those who interpret the accounting standards, such as the SEC, the banking regulators and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm may amend or reverse their previous interpretations or conclusions regarding how various standards should be applied. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company recasting, or possibly restating, prior period financial statements. If the Company does not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact profitability. Management reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures on a routine basis. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents If the Bank’s other real estate owned (“OREO”) portfolio is not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if the Bank is required to increase its valuation reserves, the Bank’s earnings could be reduced. Management obtains updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as OREO and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. The Bank’s net book value of the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A write-down is recorded for any excess in the asset’s net book value over its fair value. If the Bank’s valuation process is incorrect, or if property values decline, the fair value of the Bank’s OREO may not be sufficient to recover its carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional writedowns or valuation allowances. Significant additional writedowns or valuation allowances to OREO could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. REPUBLIC PROCESSING GROUP The Company’s lines of business and products, not typically associated with Traditional Banking, expose the Company’s earnings to additional risks and uncertainties. The Republic Processing Group (“RPG”) is comprised of three distinct divisions: Tax Refund Solutions (“TRS”), Republic Payment Solutions (“RPS”) and Republic Credit Solutions (“RCS”). As a result of RB&T’s Agreement with the FDIC, TRS is subject to additional oversight requirements through its ERO Plan. If RB&T is unable to comply with these requirements, the FDIC could require RB&T to cease offering RT products in the future. As disclosed above, RB&T developed an ERO Plan, which was agreed to by the FDIC. The ERO Plan articulates a framework for RB&T to continue to offer non-RAL tax related products and services with specified oversight of the tax preparers with which RB&T does business. The ERO Plan includes requirements for, among other things: · positive affirmations by EROs of individual tax preparer training related to regulatory requirements applicable to bank products; · annual audits covering 10% of active ERO locations and a significant sample of applications for Bank products. The audits will consist of on-site visits, document reviews, mystery shops of tax preparation offices, and tax product customer surveys; · on-site audit confirmation of ERO agreements to adhere to laws, processes, procedures, disclosure requirements and physical and electronic security requirements; · an advertising approval process that requires RB&T to approve all tax preparer advertisements prior to their issuance; · monitoring of ERO offices for income tax return quality; · monitoring of ERO offices for adherence to acceptable tax preparation fee parameters; · monitoring for federal and state tax preparation requirements, including local and state tax preparer registration and posting and disclosure requirements relative to Bank products; · RB&T to provide advance notification, as practicable, to the FDIC of any significant changes in the TRS line of business, including · a change of more than 25% from the prior tax season in the number of EROs with which RB&T is doing business, or · the addition of tax-related products offered by RB&T that it did not previously offer; and · RB&T to provide advance notification, as practicable, to the FDIC when RB&T enters into a relationship with a new corporation that has multiple owned or franchised locations, when the relationship alone will represent an increase of more than 10% from the prior tax season in the number of EROs with which RB&T is doing business. If the FDIC determines that RB&T is not in compliance with its ERO Plan, it has the authority to issue more restrictive enforcement actions. These enforcement actions could include significant additional penalties and/or requirements regarding the tax business which could significantly, negatively impact this segment’s profitability and cause RB&T to exit the business altogether. As a result of RB&T’s Agreement with the FDIC, the TRS division is subject to additional oversight requirements not currently imposed on its competitors. Management believes these additional requirements have and will continue to make attracting new relationships and retaining existing relationships more difficult for RB&T. As disclosed above, the Agreement contains a provision for an ERO Plan which has been implemented by RB&T. The ERO Plan places additional oversight and training requirements on RB&T and its tax preparation partners that are not currently required by the regulators for RB&T’s competitors in the tax business. Management believes these additional requirements have and will continue to make attracting new relationships and retaining existing relationships more difficult for RB&T, potentially reducing RT volume. Further reductions in RT volume will have a material adverse impact to RB&T’s earnings. 32 Table of Contents RB&T’s RT products represent a significant business risk, and with the elimination of the RAL product, management believes RB&T could be subject to additional regulatory and public pressure to exit the RT business. If RB&T can no longer offer these products it will have a material adverse effect on its profits. The TRS division offers bank products to facilitate the payment of tax refunds for customers that electronically file their tax returns. RB&T is one of only a few financial institutions in the U.S. that provides this service to taxpayers. In return, RB&T charges a fee for the service. Various governmental, regulatory and consumer groups have, from time to time, questioned the fairness of the TRS RAL and RT products. With RB&T’s agreement to cease offering RALs, management believes these groups will focus more attention on the RT product. Actions of these groups and others could result in regulatory, governmental or legislative action or material litigation against RB&T. Discontinuing the RT product by RB&T, either voluntarily or involuntarily, would significantly reduce RB&T’s earnings. The TRS division represents a significant operational risk, and if RB&T were unable to properly service this business, it could materially impact earnings. This division requires continued increases in technology and employees to service its business. In order to process its business, RB&T must implement and test new systems, as well as train new employees. RB&T relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its TRS division. Any failure, sustained interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management and other systems. Significant operational problems could also cause a material portion of RB&T’s tax-preparer base to switch to a competitor to process their bank product transactions, significantly reducing RB&T’s projected revenue without a corresponding decrease in expenses. Industry trends in relation to tax preparation companies assuming the role of program manager for tax-related bank products has and will continue to reduce RPG’s profitability. The TRS division of RPG has historically earned RT revenues based on its role as program manager for bank products in the tax refund process. Program managers for bank products in the tax refund processing business generally 1) supply marketing materials for bank products, 2) supply blank RT check stock for the tax offices, 3) supply tier-1 customer service to the taxpayers, which includes answering taxpayer phone calls related to the status of their RTs and the verification to third parties regarding the validity of the RT checks issued to the taxpayers by the Bank, and 4) provide overall management of the movement of refunds when received from the government, which includes exception processing and the reconciliation of all funds received and disbursed, among other duties. Industry trends reflect larger tax preparation companies assuming the role of the program manager for the bank products in the tax refund process, which includes the obligation and costs of those responsibilities of a program manager described in the previous paragraph. In those cases where the tax preparation company is also assuming the role of the program manager, the tax preparation company is also earning more of the revenue for the associated bank products sold, as the Bank typically provides ACH services and third party risk management oversight duties. This trend will likely continue to adversely affect the margin the Company earns on its tax-related products and the overall operating results and financial condition of the RPG segment. The RPG segment incurred a net operating loss in 2013. If RPG is unable to achieve an acceptable level of profitability in the future, the Company may decide to discontinue these operations and incur substantial costs to do so, which could materially negatively impact earnings. 33 Table of Contents TRADITIONAL BANK LENDING AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES (“ALLOWANCE”) The Allowance could be insufficient to cover the Bank’s actual loan losses. The Bank makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of its loans. In determining the amount of the Allowance, among other things, the Bank reviews its loans and its loss and delinquency experience, and the Bank evaluates economic conditions. If its assumptions are incorrect, the Allowance may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions to its allowance. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review the Allowance and may require the Bank to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. A material increase in the Allowance or loan charge-offs would have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration in the quality of the Traditional Banking loan portfolio may result in additional charge-offs, which would adversely impact the Bank’s operating results. Despite the various measures implemented by the Bank to address the current economic environment, there may be further deterioration in the Bank’s loan portfolio. When borrowers default on their loan obligations, it may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses associated with the increased allocation of management time and resources associated with the collection efforts. In certain situations where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable “work out” arrangements cannot be reached or performed, the Bank may have to charge off loans, either in part or in whole. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Bank’s operating results and financial condition. The Bank’s financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted to the extent the Bank relies on borrower information that is false, misleading or inaccurate. The Bank relies on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by vendors, customers and other parties. In deciding whether to extend credit, or enter into transactions with other parties, the Bank relies on information furnished by, or on behalf of, customers or entities related to those customers or other parties. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Bank’s operating results and financial condition. The Bank’s use of appraisals as part of the decision process to make a loan on or secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral. As part of the decision process to make a loan secured by real property, the Bank generally requires an appraisal of the real property. An appraisal, however, is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. An error in fact or judgment could adversely affect the reliability of the appraisal. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to decrease. As a result of any of these factors, the value of collateral backing a loan may be less than supposed, and if a default occurs, the Bank may not recover the outstanding balance of the loan. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Bank’s operating results and financial condition. The Bank is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of its business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Bank is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Bank may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect the Bank. Prepayment of loans may negatively impact the Bank’s business. The Bank’s customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within the Bank’s customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Bank is unable to lend those funds to other customers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, the Bank’s interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income would have a negative impact on the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents RB&T is highly dependent upon programs administered by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac” or the “FHLMC”). Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards could materially and adversely affect its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. RB&T’s ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors depends to a significant degree on programs administered by the FHLMC. This entity plays a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and RB&T has significant business relationships with it. RB&T’s status as an FHLMC approved seller/servicer is subject to compliance with its selling and servicing guides. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or material change in, the operation of the FHLMC or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of the FHLMC would likely prevent RB&T from originating and selling most, if not all, of its mortgage loan originations. The mortgage warehouse lending business is subject to numerous risks which could result in losses. Risks associated with mortgage warehouse loans include, without limitation, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from RB&T, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers and their third party service providers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker during the time in warehouse, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. Failure to mitigate these risks could have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s financial statements and results of operations. Loans originated through the Bank’s planned 2014 Correspondent Lending channel will subject the Bank to additional negative earnings sensitivity as the result of prepayments and additional credit risks that the Bank does not have through its historical origination channels. Loans generated through the Bank’s 2014 Correspondent Lending initiative will substantially be i) purchased at a premium and ii) represent out-of-market loans originated by a non-Republic person and/or non-Republic entity. Loans purchased at a premium inherently subject the Bank’s earnings to additional sensitivity related to prepayments as increases in prepayment speeds will negatively affect the overall yield to maturity on such loans, potentially even causing the net loan yield to be negative for the period of time the loan is owned by the Bank. Loans originated out of the Bank’s market area by non-Republic persons and/or entities will inherently carry additional credit risk from potential fraud due to the increased level of third party involvement on such loans. In addition, the Bank will also experience an increase in complexity for customer service and the collection process, given the number of different state laws the Bank could be subject to from loans purchased throughout the U.S. Failure to appropriately manage these additional risks could lead to reduced profitability and/or operating losses through this origination channel. Loans originated through the Bank’s Internet Lending channel, which management anticipates increasing in 2014, will subject the Bank to credit and regulatory risks that the Bank does not have through its historical origination channels. The dollar amount of loans originated through the Bank’s Internet Lending channel is expected to be increasingly out-of-market. Loans originated out of the Bank’s market area inherently carry additional credit risk as the Bank will experience an increase in the complexity of the customer authentication requirements for such loans. Failure to appropriately identify the end-borrower for such loans could lead to fraud losses. Failure to appropriately manage these additional risks could lead to reduced profitability and/or operating losses through this origination channel. In addition, failure to appropriately identify the end-borrower could result in regulatory sanctions resulting from failure to comply with various customer identification regulations. Loan production volume through mortgage warehouse lending is subject to various market conditions. RB&T’s mortgage warehouse lending business is significantly influenced by the volume and composition of residential mortgage purchase and refinance transactions among the Bank’s mortgage banking clients. During 2013 the Bank’s mortgage warehouse lending volume consisted of 63% purchase transactions, in which the mortgage company’s borrower was purchasing a new residence, and 37% refinance transactions, in which the mortgage company’s client was refinancing an existing mortgage loan. Purchase volume is driven by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the overall economy, the housing market and long-term residential mortgage interest rates; while refinance volume is primarily driven by long-term residential mortgage interest rates. RB&T’s mortgage warehouse lending business benefited during 2011, 2012 and the first five months of 2013 from low or declining long-term residential mortgage rates, which incentivized a high volume of borrowers to refinance their mortgages. Increases in long-term residential mortgage interest rates in the second quarter of 2013 decreased refinances significantly without an equivalent increase in purchase volume. Market movements of this nature without compensating growth in RB&T’s mortgage warehouse client base will have an adverse impact on the Bank’s net interest income. 35 Table of Contents INVESTMENT SECURITIES, FHLB STOCK AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Concerns regarding a downgrade of the U.S. government’s credit rating could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. In 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+ and also lowered the credit rating of several related government agencies and institutions, including FHLMC, FNMA, and the Federal Home Loan Bank’s (“FHLB’s”), from AAA to AA+. In October 2013, Fitch placed the U.S. AAA long-term foreign and local currency Issuer Default Ratings on Rating Watch Negative. Further downgrades by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch, or defaults by the U.S. on any of its obligations could have material adverse impacts on financial and banking markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world. In turn, the market’s anticipation of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, these events could increase interest rates and disrupt payment systems, money markets, and long-term or short-term fixed income markets, adversely affecting the cost and availability of funding, which could negatively affect the Company’s profitability. It may also negatively affect the value and liquidity of the government securities the Bank holds in its investment portfolio. At December 31, 2013, the majority of the Bank’s investment securities were issued by FHLMC, FNMA, and the FHLB. It is uncertain as to what impact future downgrades or defaults, if any, will have on these securities as sources of liquidity and funding. Also, the adverse consequences as a result of downgrades could extend to the borrowers of the loans the Bank makes and, as a result, could adversely affect its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. The Bank’s investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock may become impaired. At December 31, 2013, the Bank owned $28 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, the Bank is required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Its stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. The Bank’s FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per applicable accounting standards. The Bank’s FHLB stock investments could become impaired. The Bank will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of its investment. The Bank’s investment securities may incur other than temporary impairment charges. The Bank’s investment portfolio is periodically evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment loss (“OTTI”). From 2008 through 2011 OTTI charges were recognized on the Bank’s private label mortgage backed securities. The Bank’s remaining private label mortgage backed security may still require an OTTI charge in the future should the financial condition of the underlying mortgages and/or the underlying third party insurance wrap (guarantee) deteriorate further. The Bank holds a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2013, the Bank held bank-owned life insurance (“BOLI”) on certain employees with a cash surrender value of $25 million. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to the Bank if needed for liquidity purposes. The Bank continually monitors the financial strength of the various insurance companies that carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return the Bank’s cash surrender value. If the Bank needs to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, it would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. ASSET LIABILITY MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability. The Bank’s primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The Bank expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Bank’s position, earnings may be negatively affected. 36 Table of Contents The Bank’s asset-liability management strategy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Overall, from 2008 through the first four months of 2013, interest rates generally decreased. In order to combat contraction with its net interest income and net interest margin and improve its current earnings for the current year and near-term, the Bank elected to retain assets in the loan and investment portfolios with longer repricing durations. In addition, through its strategic pricing, the Bank also allowed its certificates of deposits, which are a longer-term source of funding, to decline. While the Bank has remained within its board approved interest rate risk policies, when interest rates begin to rise again, the Bank’s net interest income and net interest margin could be more negatively impacted as a result of these strategies. More specifically, the Bank’s interest income could rise at a slower pace than the Bank’s interest expense and the fair value of the Bank’s assets could likely decrease at a faster pace than the increase in the fair value of interest-bearing liabilities. These circumstances could cause a decline in the Bank’s net interest income and a reduction in the Bank’s economic value of equity. A continued stable interest rate environment will reduce profitability. During most of 2013, the Bank experienced contraction in its net interest income and net interest margin as it could no longer lower the rate on many of its interest-bearing liabilities, while the Bank’s higher yielding interest-earning assets continued to pay down and reprice lower. An on-going stable interest rate environment will cause the Bank’s interest-earning assets to continue to reprice into lower yielding assets without the ability for the Bank to offset the decline in interest income through a reduction in its cost of funds. The continued contraction in the Bank’s net interest margin will cause net interest income to decrease. The overall magnitude of the decrease in net interest income will depend on the period of time that the current interest rate environment remains. Mortgage Banking activities could be adversely impacted by increasing or stagnant long-term interest rates. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the gain on sale of loans, loan origination fees and loan servicing fees, which account for a significant portion of Mortgage Banking income. A decline in market interest rates generally results in higher demand for mortgage products, while an increase in rates generally results in reduced demand. Generally, if demand increases, Mortgage Banking income will be positively impacted by more gains on sale; however, the valuation of existing mortgage servicing rights will decrease and may result in a significant impairment. A decline in demand for Mortgage Banking products resulting from rising interest rates could also adversely impact other programs/products such as home equity lending, title insurance commissions and service charges on deposit accounts. The Bank’s Mortgage Banking income has benefitted over the past three years from a relatively low rate environment, which has incentivized borrowers to refinance their mortgages. During the second quarter of 2013, however, long-term interest rates rose significantly and drove a dramatic downturn in mortgage refinancings. The Bank’s loan sales consisted of 19% purchase transactions and 81% refinance transactions during 2012 versus 26% purchase and 74% during 2013. Of the 1,650 secondary market loans refinanced by the Bank during 2013, 74% took place prior to June 30, 2013, the month in which long term interest rates began to rise significantly. Stagnant or increasing long-term interest rates would likely continue to decrease demand for all Mortgage Banking products, and most significantly decrease refinance transaction volume. Any such decreases in demand would have a significant adverse impact on Mortgage Banking income. The Company may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future for growth, investment or strategic acquisitions. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, it may not be able to grow or make strategic acquisitions or investments. The Bank’s funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support future growth. The Bank relies on customer deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the FHLB to fund operations. Although the Bank has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that the Bank would be able to replace such funds in the future if the Bank’s financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or general market conditions were to change. The Bank’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if it is unable to maintain its access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if the Bank is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Although the Bank considers such sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Bank may seek additional debt in the future to achieve long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to the Bank or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future may be dilutive to the Bank’s shareholders, and debt financing arrangements may require the Bank to pledge some of its assets and enter into various affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on operational activities and financing alternatives. Future financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to the Bank or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to the Bank and may require regulatory approval. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. DEPOSITS, OVERDRAFTS, FDIC INSURANCE PREMIUMS AND SERVICE CHARGES ON DEPOSITS Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing the Bank to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. If clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, the Bank could lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing its funding costs and negatively impacting its overall results of operations. The loss of large deposit relationships could increase the Bank’s funding costs. The Bank has several large deposit realationships that do not require collateral; therefore, cash from these accounts can generally be utilized to fund the loan portfolio. If any of these balances are moved from the Bank, the Bank would likely utilize overnight borrowing lines on a short-term basis to replace the balances. On a longer-term basis, the Bank would likely utilize brokered deposits and/or FHLB borrowings to replace withdrawn balances. The overall cost of gathering brokered deposits and/or FHLB borrowings, however, could be substantially higher than the Traditional Bank deposits they replace, increasing the Bank’s funding costs and reducing the Bank’s overall results of operations. The Bank’s “Overdraft Honor” program represents a significant business risk, and if the Bank terminated the program it would materially impact the earnings of the Bank. There can be no assurance that Congress, the Bank’s regulators, or others, will not impose additional limitations on this program or prohibit the Bank from offering the program. The Bank’s “Overdraft Honor” program permits eligible customers to overdraft their checking accounts up to a predetermined dollar amount for the Bank’s customary overdraft fee(s). Generally, to be eligible for the Overdraft Honor program, customers must qualify for one of the Bank’s traditional checking products when the account is opened, remain in that product for 30 days and have recurring deposit activity within the account. Once the eligibility requirements have been met, the client is eligible to participate in the Overdraft Honor program. If an overdraft occurs, the Bank may pay the overdraft, at its discretion, up to the client’s individual overdraft limit. Under regulatory guidelines, customers utilizing the Overdraft Honor program may remain in overdraft status for no more than 60 days before it must be closed charged off. Overdraft balances from deposit accounts, including those overdraft balances resulting from the Bank’s Overdraft Honor program, are recorded as a component of “loans” on the Bank’s balance sheet. The Bank assesses two types of fees related to overdrawn accounts, a fixed per item fee and a fixed daily charge for being in overdraft status. The per item fee for this service is not considered an extension of credit, but rather is considered a fee for paying checks when sufficient funds are not otherwise available. As such, it is classified on the income statement in “service charges on deposits” as a component of non-interest income along with per item fees assessed to customers not in the Overdraft Honor program. A substantial majority of the per item fees in service charges on deposits relates to customers in the Overdraft Honor program. The daily fee assessed to the client for being in overdraft status is considered a loan fee and is thus included in interest income under the line item “loans, including fees.” The total net per item fees included in service charges on deposit for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $8.0 million and $7.5 million. The total net daily overdraft charges included in interest income for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $1.7 million in both periods. Additional limitations or elimination, or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would significantly reduce Bank earnings. 38 Table of Contents In 2010, the FDIC issued its final guidance on Automated Overdraft payment programs which requires FDIC regulated banks to implement and maintain robust oversight of these programs. The new guidance has had a material adverse effect on the Bank’s net income. These guidelines have negatively impacted and will continue to negatively impact the Bank’s net income in 2014 and beyond. This guidance states, “the FDIC expects institutions to implement effective compliance and risk management systems, policies, and procedures to ensure that institutions manage any overdraft payment programs in accordance with the 2005 Joint Guidance on Overdraft Protection Programs (Joint Guidance)(Financial Institutions Letter (FIL)-11-2005) and the Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) November 2009 amendments to Regulation E, to avoid harming consumers or creating other compliance, operational, financial, reputational, legal or other risks.” Additional limitations or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would further significantly reduce net income. There can be no assurance that the FDIC will not impose special assessments or increase the deposit premiums applicable to the Company. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum statutory reserve ratio for the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund will increase from 1.15% to 1.35% of insurable deposits by 2020. Company expenses would increase as a result of increases in FDIC insurance premiums. COMPANY COMMON STOCK The Company’s common stock generally has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a stockholder’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly sell large numbers of shares of Republic’s stock without causing wide price fluctuations. Republic’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, such as actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation, regulatory actions or changes in government regulations, among other factors. A low average daily stock trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. The market price for the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of the Company’s common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate include: · Variations in the Company’s and its competitors’ operating results; · Changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to the Bank or other financial institutions; · Announcements by the Company or its competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships; · Additions or departure of key personnel; · Actual or anticipated quarterly or annual fluctuations in operating results, cash flows and financial condition; · The announced exiting of or significant reductions in material lines of business within the Company; · Changes or proposed changes in banking laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations; · Events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to the Company; · Developments relating to regulatory examinations; · Speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to the Company’s reputation or the financial services industry; · Future issuances or re-sales of equity or equity-related securities, or the perception that they may occur; · General conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; · Domestic and international economic factors unrelated to the Company’s performance; · Developments related to litigation or threatened litigation; · The presence or absence of short selling of the Company’s common stock; and, · Future sales of the Company’s common stock or debt securities. 39 Table of Contents In addition, in recent years, the stock market, in general, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This is due, in part, to investors’ shifting perceptions of the effect of changes and potential changes in the economy on various industry sectors. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their performance or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock, notwithstanding its actual or anticipated operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, including prevailing interest rates, other economic conditions, operating performance and investor perceptions of the outlook for the Company specifically and the banking industry in general. There can be no assurance about the level of the market price of the Company’s common stock in the future or that you will be able to resell your shares at times or at prices you find attractive. An investment in the Company’s Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company’s Chairman/CEO and President hold substantial voting authority over the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes. This group generally votes together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. These actions may include, for example, the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to corporate documents, the approval of mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets and the continuation of the Company as a registered company with obligations to file periodic reports and other filings with the SEC. Consequently, other stockholders’ ability to influence Company actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. Majority stockholders may not vote their shares in accordance with minority stockholder interests. GOVERNMENT REGULATION / ECONOMIC FACTORS The Company is significantly impacted by the regulatory, fiscal and monetary policies of federal and state governments which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity position and earnings. These policies can materially affect the value of the Company’s financial instruments and can also adversely affect the Company’s customers and their ability to repay their outstanding loans. Also, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or adverse examination findings, could result in significant penalties, negatively impact operations, or result in other sanctions against the Company. The Board of Governors of the FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine, in large part, the Company’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return the Company earns on these loans and investments, all of which impact net interest margin. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels and are subject to various routine and non-routine examinations by federal and state regulators. This regulatory oversight is primarily intended to protect depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, not the stockholders of the Company. Changes in policies, regulations and statutes, or the interpretation thereof, could significantly impact the product offerings of Republic causing the Company to terminate or modify its product offerings in a manner that could materially adversely affect the earnings of the Company. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. Various federal and state regulatory agencies possess cease and desist powers, and other authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. The FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These, and other restrictions, can limit in varying degrees, the manner in which Republic conducts its business. 40 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act may continue to adversely affect the Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. In July, 2010, the President of the U.S. signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“the Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act imposed various new restrictions and creates an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Bank. The FDIC and the OCC have subsequently approved these rules. The final rules were adopted following the issuance of proposed rules by the Federal Reserve in June 2012, and implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The rules include new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be phased in from 2015 to 2019, and will refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Bank under the final rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The final rules also establish a “capital conservation buffer” above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements, which must consist entirely of common equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer will be phased-in over four years beginning on January 1, 2016, as follows: the maximum buffer will be 0.625% of risk-weighted assets for 2016, 1.25% for 2017, 1.875% for 2018, and 2.5% for 2019 and thereafter. This will result in the following minimum ratios beginning in 2019: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Under the final rules, institutions are subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. The final rules implement revisions and clarifications consistent with Basel III regarding the various components of Tier 1 capital, including common equity, unrealized gains and losses, as well as certain instruments that will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, some of which will be phased out over time. However, the final rules provide that small depository institution holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009 (which includes the Company) will be able to permanently include non-qualifying instruments that were issued and included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital prior to May 19, 2010 in additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital until they redeem such instruments or until the instruments mature. The final rules also contain revisions to the prompt corrective action framework, which is designed to place restrictions on insured depository institutions if their capital levels begin to show signs of weakness. These revisions take effect January 1, 2015. Under the prompt corrective action requirements, which are designed to complement the capital conservation buffer, insured depository institutions will be required to meet the following increased capital level requirements in order to qualify as “well capitalized:” (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% (increased from 6%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 10% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% (increased from 4%). The final rules set forth certain changes for the calculation of risk-weighted assets, which the Bank will be required to utilize beginning January 1, 2015. The standardized approach final rule utilizes an increased number of credit risk exposure categories and risk weights, and also addresses: (i) an alternative standard of creditworthiness consistent with Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act; (ii) revisions to recognition of credit risk mitigation; (iii) rules for risk weighting of equity exposures and past due loans; (iv) revised capital treatment for derivatives and repo-style transactions; and (v) disclosure requirements for top-tier banking organizations with $50 billion or more in total assets that are not subject to the “advance approach rules” that apply to banks with greater than $250 billion in consolidated assets. Also, included as provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act was the establishment of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which was granted authority to regulate companies that provide consumer financial services. The Company is regularly refining its consumer financial services and developing new products and services or operations to address recent or anticipated legislative and regulatory changes. Some of these anticipated legislative and regulatory changes may result in, among other things, RB&T reducing fees to consumers or implementing additional disclosure requirements. The Company could incur additional operating costs which could reduce overall product profitability and lead to the Company exiting certain consumer products. The Company cannot currently predict what operational changes, if any, it will make in response to evolving legislative and regulatory requirements and what effect these changes may have on the Company’s financial results of operations. The Company does believe that any operational changes it may be required to make in the future will have a negative impact on the Company’s overall profitability. 41 Table of Contents Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition and earnings. Enacted financial reform legislation will change the bank regulatory framework, create an independent consumer protection bureau that will assume the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect Company operations by restricting business activities, including the Company’s ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase the Company’s costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of the Company’s loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect financial performance. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate or tapers its securities purchases, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on the Company’s borrowers, especially business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which the Company is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION SYSTEMS, ACQUISITIONS, ETC. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team and qualified personnel. The Company is dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of its key management personnel who have substantial experience with Company operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which the Company offers services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of its senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on operations, moreover, the Company depends on its account executives and loan officers to attract bank customers by developing relationships with commercial and consumer clients, mortgage companies, real estate agents, brokers and others. The Company believes that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves the Company, other members of the manager’s team may follow. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. The Company’s success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as the Company grows. The Company cannot assure you that it will continue to attract or retain such personnel. 42 Table of Contents The Company’s operations could be impacted if its third-party service providers experience difficulty. The Company depends on a number of relationships with third-party service providers, including core systems processing and web hosting. These providers are well established vendors that provide these services to a significant number of financial institutions. If these third-party service providers experience difficulty or terminate their services and the Company is unable to replace them with other providers, its operations could be interrupted which would adversely impact its business. The Company’s operations, including customer interactions, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased the risks related to cyber security. The Company is exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. Management has observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to the Bank’s customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting operations. While the Company has not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor is management aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, the Bank may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if the Bank falls victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include: remediation costs for stolen assets or information; system repairs; consumer protection costs; increased cyber security protection costs that may include organizational changes; deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation and payment of damages; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption that could adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruption of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of the failure or interruption of information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrences of any failures, or interruptions of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks. From time to time, the Company may develop and grow new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. All service offerings, including current offerings and those which may be provided in the future, may become more risky due to changes in economic, competitive and market conditions beyond the Company’s control. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to Company operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Company conducts its business activities, including sales practices, practices used in origination and servicing operations, the management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and the Company’s protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation. 43 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to successfully complete acquisitions will affect its ability to grow its franchise and compete effectively in its market areas. The Company has announced plans to pursue a policy of growth through acquisitions in the near-future to supplement internal growth. The Company’s efforts to acquire other financial institutions and financial service companies or branches may not be successful. Numerous potential acquirers exist for many acquisition candidates, creating intense competition, which affects the purchase price for which the institution can be acquired. In many cases, the Company’s competitors have significantly greater resources than the Company has, and greater flexibility to structure the consideration for the transaction. The Company may also not be the successful bidder in acquisition opportunities that it pursues due to the willingness or ability of other potential acquirers to propose a higher purchase price or more attractive terms and conditions than the Company is willing or able to propose. The Company intends to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities in each of its market areas, although the Company currently has no understandings or agreements to acquire other financial institutions. The risks presented by the acquisition of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is successful in conducting acquisitions, it will be presented with many risks that could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. An institution that the Company acquires may have unknown asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities that the Company did not discover or fully recognize in the due diligence process, thereby resulting in unanticipated losses. The acquisition of other institutions also typically requires the integration of different corporate cultures, loan and deposit products, pricing strategies, data processing systems and other technologies, accounting, internal audit and financial reporting systems, operating systems and internal controls, marketing programs and personnel of the acquired institution, in order to make the transaction economically advantageous. The integration process is complicated and time consuming and could divert the Company’s attention from other business concerns and may be disruptive to its customers and the customers of the acquired institution. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate an acquired institution could result in the loss of key customers and employees, and prevent the Company from achieving expected synergies and cost savings. Acquisitions also result in professional fees and may result in creating goodwill that could become impaired, thereby requiring the Company to recognize further charges. The Company may finance acquisitions with borrowed funds, thereby increasing the Company’s leverage and reducing liquidity, or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. The Company may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to its business. The Company may have additional opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, the Company is (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks it would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes the Company expects. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow the Company the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, the Company may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to capital resources requiring the Company to raise additional capital. Moreover, if the Company seeks to participate in additional FDIC-assisted acquisitions, the Company can only participate in the bid process if it receives approval of bank regulators. The Company’s inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s litigation related costs may continue to increase. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of the Bank’s business. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. There can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings could adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. 44 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 