Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be unable to increase sales or identify suitable acquisition candidates. Our ability to increase sales depends on numerous factors, including market acceptance of existing products, the successful introduction of new products, growth of consumer discretionary spending, our ability to recruit new independent sales consultants, sourcing of raw materials and demand-driven increases in production and distribution capacity. Business in all of our segments is driven by consumer preferences. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that our current or future products will maintain or achieve market acceptance. Our sales and earnings results can be negatively impacted by the worldwide economic environment, particularly the United States, Canadian and European economies. There can be no assurances that our financial results will not be materially adversely affected by these fa ctors in the future. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions, and we continue to consider additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurances that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on terms favorable to us, finance acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired operations or that companies we acquire will perform as anticipated. We may be unable to respond to changes in consumer preferences. Our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. The nature of our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our ability to meet future product demand in all of our business segments will depend upon our success in sourcing adequate supplies of our products; bringing new production and distribution capacity on line in a timely manner; improving our ability to forecast product demand and fulfill customer orders promptly; improving customer service-oriented management information systems; and training, motivating and managing new employees. The failure of any of t he above could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. A continued or protracted downturn in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items including demand for our products. Factors that could affect consumers’ willingness to make such discretionary purchases include general business conditions, levels of employment, energy costs, interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence. A reduction in consumer spending could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Return to Top The recent turmoil in the financial markets could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments and could result in additional impairments to our businesses. United States and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, in recent years equity markets have experienced rapid and wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing, if needed, may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our businesses. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. In the event current market conditions continue we will more than likely be subject to higher interest costs than we are currently incurring and may requi re our providing security to guarantee such borrowings. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain unfunded borrowings in that amount, which may require us to seek other forms of financing, such as term debt, at higher interest rates and with additional expenses. In addition, we may be subject to future impairments of our assets, including accounts receivable, investments, inventories, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, if the valuation of these assets or businesses declines. We face diverse risks in our international business, which could adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. For fiscal 2008, 2009 and 2010, revenue from outside the United States was 33%, 41% and 45% of our total revenue, respectively. We expect international sales to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Due to our reliance on sales to customers outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: • United States and foreign government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions on imports to or from the United States; • foreign government taxes and regulations, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to the United States; • the laws and policies of the United States, Canada and certain European countries affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes); • foreign labor laws, regulations and restrictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations and difficulty in maintaining quality control; • adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any interest rate swap or other hedging activities we undertake; • political instability, natural disasters, health crises, war or events of terrorism; • transportation costs and delays; and • the strength of international economies. 10 Return to Top We are dependent upon sales by independent consultants. A significant portion of our products are marketed and sold through the direct selling method of distribution, where products are primarily marketed and sold by independent consultants to consumers without the use of retail establishments. This distribution system depends upon the successful recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of independent consultants to offset frequent turnover. The recruitment and retention of independent consultants depends on the competitive environment among direct selling companies and on the general labor market, unemployment levels, economic conditions, and demographic and cultural changes in the workforce. The motivation of our consultants depends, in large part, upon the effectiveness of our compensation and promotional programs, its competitiveness compared with other direct selling compan ies, the successful introduction of new products, and the ability to advance through the consultant ranks. Our sales are directly tied to the levels of activity of our consultants, which is a part-time working activity for many of them. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of our consultants, the amount of average sales per party, the amount of sales per consultant, the mix of high-margin and low-margin products in our product line and the activities and actions of our competitors. Earnings of PartyLite’s independent sales consultants are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose obligations on us to collect or pay taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we may be subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of new liabilities being imposed for social security and similar taxes with respect to PartyLite’s independent sales consultants. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat PartyLite’s independent sales consultants as employees, or that PartyLite’s independent sales consultants are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rath er than independent contractors or agents under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social charges and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our profitability may be affected by shortages or increases in the cost of raw materials. Certain raw materials could be in short supply due to price changes, capacity, availability, a change in production requirements, weather or other factors, including supply disruptions due to production or transportation delays. While the price of crude oil is only one of several factors impacting the price of petroleum wax, it is possible that recent fluctuations in oil prices may have a material adverse effect on the cost of petroleum-based products used in the manufacture or transportation of our products, particularly in the Direct Selling and Wholesale segments. In recent years, substantial cost increases for certain raw materials, such as paraffin, diethylene glycol (DEG), ethanol and paper, negatively impacted profitability of certain products in all three segments. In addition, a number of governme ntal authorities in the U.S. and abroad have introduced or are contemplating enacting legal requirements, including emissions limitations, cap and trade systems and other measures to reduce production of greenhouse gases, in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These measures may have an indirect effect on us by affecting the prices of products made from fossil fuels, including paraffin and DEG, as well as ethanol, which is used as an additive to gasoline. Given the wide range of potential future climate change regulations and their effects on these raw materials, the potential indirect impact to our operations is uncertain. 11 Return to Top In addition, the potential impact of climate change on the weather is highly uncertain. The impact of climate change may vary by geographic location and other circumstances, including weather patterns and any impact to natural resources such as water. Severe weather in the locations where fossil fuel based raw materials are produced, such as increased hurricane activity or virulence in the Gulf of Mexico, could disrupt the production, availability or pricing of these raw materials. We expect not to be disproportionately affected by these measures compared with other companies engaged in the same businesses. We are dependent upon our key corporate management personnel. Our success depends in part on the contributions of our key corporate management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert B. Goergen, as well as the members of the Office of the Chairman: Robert H. Barghaus, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert B. Goergen, Jr., Vice President and President, Multi-Channel Group; and Anne M. Butler, Vice President and President, PartyLite Worldwide. We do not have employment contracts with any of our key corporate management personnel except the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nor do we maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of any of the key corporate management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our businesses are subject to the risks from increased competition. Our business is highly competitive both in terms of pricing and new product introductions. The worldwide market for decorative and functional products for the home is highly fragmented with numerous suppliers serving one or more of the distribution channels served by us. In addition, we compete for independent sales consultants with other direct selling companies. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in all of our business segments, we may face increased competition from other companies, some of which may have substantially greater financial or other resources than those available to us. Competition includes companies selling candles manufactured at lower costs outside of the United States. Moreover, certain competitors focus on a single geographic or product market and attempt to gain or maintain market share solely on the basis of price. We depend upon our information technology systems. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems to operate our websites, process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. Previously, we have experienced interruptions resulting from upgrades to certain of our information technology systems which temporarily reduced the effectiveness of our operations. Our information technology systems depend on global communications providers, telephone systems, hardware, software and other aspects of Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our s ystems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit internal operations, the ability to provide customer service or the ability of customers or sales personnel to access our information systems. The Internet plays a major role in our interaction with customers and independent consultants and distributors. Risks such as changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches, and consumer privacy are key concerns related to the 12 Return to Top Internet. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce sales, increase costs and damage our relationships. Management uses information systems to support decision making and to monitor business performance. We may fail to generate accurate financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management. Failure to adopt systematic procedures to quality Information Technology General Controls could disrupt our business and reduce sales. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controls such as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operate our business could be limited. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. Our effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. ViSalus’ business is affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations and similar constraints, and their failure to comply with those constraints may have a material adverse effect on ViSalus’ financial condition and operating results. ViSalus is affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States, including regulations pertaining to: (1) the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of ViSalus’ products; (2) product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by ViSalus, as well as claims and advertising by distributors, for which ViSalus may be held responsible; (3) ViSalus’ network marketing program; and (4) taxation of ViSalus’ independent distributors (which in some instances may impose an obligation on ViSalus to collect the taxes and maintain appropriate records). There can be no assu rance that ViSalus or its distributors are in compliance with all of these regulations, and the failure by ViSalus or its distributors’ failure to comply with these regulations or new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact ViSalus’ business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant 13 Return to Top compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of ViSalus’ products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. In addition, ViSalus’ network marketing program is subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the FTC and various state agencies in the United States. ViSalus is subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, its network marketing program could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations. Regulations applicable to network marketing organizations generally are directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes, by ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within an organization is based on sales of the organization’s products rather than investments in the organization or other non-retail sales-related criteria. The regulatory requirements co ncerning network marketing programs do not include “bright line” rules and are inherently fact-based, and thus, even in jurisdictions where ViSalus believes that its network marketing program is in full compliance with applicable laws or regulations governing network marketing systems, it is subject to the risk that these laws or regulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. The failure of ViSalus’ network marketing program to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact its business in a particular market or in general. Increased cost of our catalog and promotional mailings can reduce our profitability. Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. Future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog circulations. Climate change may pose physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. Several of our facilities are located in areas exposed to the risk of hurricanes or tornadoes. The effect of global warming on such storms is highly uncertain. Based on an assessment of the locations of the facilities, the nature and extent of the operations conducted at such facilities, the prior history of such storms in these locations, and the likely future effect of such storms on those operations and on the Company as a whole, we do not currently expect any material adverse effect on the results of operation from such storms in the foreseeable future. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 might have an impact on market confidence in our reported financial information. We must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes reported during fiscal 2009 has been remediated, and the control was determined to be effective at January 31, 2010. We will continue to perform the documentation and evaluations needed to comply with Section 404. If during this process our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert our internal control as effective. 14 Return to Top Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 