Item 1A. Risk Factors Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy, postage and other raw materials may adversely impact us. Purchases of paper, ink, energy, postage and other raw materials and goods and services represent a large portion of our costs. Any increases in the costs of these items will also increase our costs. Depending on the timing and severity of such increases, we may not always be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. Increases in the costs of these items may also adversely impact our customers’ demand for printing and related services. We may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials. We are dependent on the availability of paper, ink, and other raw materials to support our operations. Circumstances outside of our control in these markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper, ink or other raw materials and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to improve our operating efficiencies rapidly enough to adapt to current market conditions. Because the markets in which we compete are highly-competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. Although we have been able to improve efficiency and reduce costs in the past, there is no 9 Table of Contents assurance that we will continue to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily shift senior management’s attention from the other day-to-day operations of the Company. Our strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our capabilities and services. We may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including senior management. Our success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of our employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Although our operating platform consists of many locations with a wide geographic dispersion, individual locations may encounter strong competition from other employers for skilled labor. In addition, various members of our management team have significant industry experience and a long track record with us that is important to our continued success. If one or more members of our senior management team leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, which could harm our business and results of operations. Costs to provide health care and certain other benefits to our employees may increase. We generally provide health care and certain other benefits to our employees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting our business and results of operations. Declines in general economic conditions or acts of war and terrorism may adversely impact our business. A decline in the U.S. and global economic conditions will most likely affect our results of operations and financial position. A decline in such economic conditions can cause our customers difficulty in obtaining credit to fund their operations. Additionally, many of our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of printed materials. These conditions could adversely affect our revenues, increase price competition and/or increase operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we could suffer significant losses if such economic conditions would cause customers whom we have offered certain trade credit to fail or otherwise not have the ability to pay us. A significant write-off of accounts receivable due to uncollectability would also have a negative impact on our financial results. The overall business climate may also be impacted by domestic and foreign wars or acts of terrorism. Such acts may have sudden and unpredictable adverse impacts on demand for our services. The highly competitive market for our services may create adverse pricing pressures. The markets for our services are highly fragmented and we have a large number of competitors, resulting in a highly competitive market and increasing risk of adverse pricing pressures in various circumstances outside of our control, including the current economic conditions. Decline in preference for using or receiving printed materials in lieu of alternative mediums may adversely affect our business. In addition to traditional non-print based marketing and advertising channels, online distribution and hosting of media content may gain broader acceptance or preferred status relative to printed materials among consumers generally and could have an adverse effect on our business. Consumer acceptance of electronic delivery as well as the extent that consumers may have previously replaced traditional reading of print material with online hosted media contents is uncertain. We have no ability to predict the likelihood that this may occur. 10 Table of Contents Changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations, as well as those associated with being a public company. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state, provincial, national or foreign governments or agencies. Changes in these regulations may result in a significant increase in our compliance costs. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations could require increases to our workforce, increased cost for services, compensation and benefits, or investments in new or upgraded equipment. In addition, growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or “cap and trade” legislation. Compliance with this legislation could result in additional costs to the Company. Advances in technology may reduce barriers to entry and may result in increased competition. Future advances in technology could cause certain cost and logistics barriers to entry in the general commercial printing industry to be reduced or eliminated, which may result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Current cost barriers include the relatively large scale of equipment and real estate required to effectively compete in our industry, while logistics barriers include shipping, customer service and other costs that have historically precluded competitors not having a local presence from competing effectively from outside of a particular market, particularly foreign-based competitors. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems for many enterprise-critical functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and management information systems. We generally rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, job entry, tracking, production, distribution and cost accumulation and certain purchasing functions. Our information technology infrastructure underlies both our management information systems and our technology-based product offerings. The failure of our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We generally do not have long-term customer agreements. Our customers are typically not contractually obligated to purchase future services from us. Although our business does not depend on any one customer or group or type of customers, we cannot be sure that any particular customer will continue to do business with us for any period of time. We depend on good labor relations. If the employees at one or more of our unionized businesses were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage for any reason, including failure to enter into satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions, or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Currently we are in negotiations with unions at three of our printing businesses and there is no assurance that such negotiations will be successful or result in favorable collective bargaining agreements. We rely on the ability to borrow cash to make acquisitions, fund capital expenditures and provide working capital to the extent such cash needs exceed our internally generated cash flow. Our failure to comply with financial and other covenant requirements contained in our loan agreements, could limit our ability to borrow cash. We currently have adequate capacity under our primary bank credit facility as well as other sources of capital to fund our foreseeable cash needs in the event our cash needs exceed our projected internally-generated cash flows. However, adverse changes in general economic conditions or in our financial performance could cause a limitation in the amount of capital available to us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and growth strategies. Limitations in the amount of capital available to us could result from our failure to comply with financial or other covenants contained in our loan agreements or an inability to refinance our debt when it comes due. 11 Table of Contents A decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. We have a significant amount of goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred taxes on our balance sheet. Declines in expected profitability could lead to impairment charges related to goodwill, other long-lived assets, or deferred tax assets. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Publicity resulting from allegations in some of these proceedings may materially affect us. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results. We are subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. For certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, disputes may also arise between us and our insurers relating to coverage of certain losses which, if not resolved favorably, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our stock price continues to be volatile. Our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many public companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. If we fail to meet any expectations with respect to our operations or profitability, our stock price may decline significantly. Change in postal rates and regulations may adversely impact demand for our products and services. Postal costs are a significant cost for many of our customers. Changes in postal rates can influence the number of pieces and types of mailings that our customers mail thereby reducing their demand for our products and services. Any resulting decline in print volumes would have an adverse effect on our business. We could face significant withdrawal liability if we withdraw from participation in one or more multi-employer pension plans in which we participate. We participate in various “multi-employer” pension plans for certain of our union employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. We make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. In the ordinary course of renegotiating collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan. If we withdraw from a plan, the plan will demand that we pay a withdrawal liability as may be required under applicable law. We can choose to pay the withdrawal liability in a lump sum or in quarterly payments. We will record such withdrawal liability, calculated as an amount equal to the present value of future payments required to satisfy such liability, as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and a liability on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of withdrawal. However, since the withdrawal liability is not fixed until we receive notice of the actual withdrawal liability from the plan administrator, we estimate the withdrawal liability based on the limited information available to us from the plan, which we cannot independently validate. The information setting forth our actual withdrawal liability, which includes the unfunded vested benefits in the plan, contributions of other participants in the plan, and our contributions, is generally not available until the end of the plan year following the year of withdrawal. Several of our companies have recently withdrawn from multi-employer pension plans and we have recorded an estimated withdrawal liability for such withdrawals, while a few of our companies continue to participate in such plans. The actual withdrawal liability may differ significantly from the estimates we recorded at the time of withdrawal, and any difference will be recorded at the time we receive notice of the actual withdrawal liability from the plan administrator. Some multi-employer plans, including ones in which we participate, are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability, and could affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to additional withdrawal liabilities in the event of a mass withdrawal from any of the plans. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 