Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves risk, and you should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose some or all of your investment. You should carefully read the risks described below before you decide to buy any of our common stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any one of the following risks. Changes in interest rates may impact our net interest margin and profitability. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Prior to June of 2004, the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates 12 times beginning January 2001. Since June 2004, the Federal Reserve has increased short-term interest rates 17 times. Between September 2007 and December 2008, the Federal Reserve lowered rates 10 times. We believe the Federal Reserve will eventually have no choice but to increase short-term i nterest rates which will negatively impact our net interest margin due to our large portfolio of floating rate loans that are at the floor interest rate embedded in such loans. In most cases, short-term rates will need to be raised in excess of 100 basis points before the interest rate on the loans will exceed the floor interest rate and positively impact our net interest income. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our market area. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in Roanoke, Virginia. A prolonged economic recession in our market area could cause any of the following consequences, each of which could adversely affect our business: · Demand for our products and services could decline; · Loan delinquencies may increase; and · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase Additionally, the adverse consequences to us in the event of a continued economic recession in our market could be compounded by the fact that the majority of our commercial and real estate loans are secured by real estate located in our market area. A further decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral securing the loans would be diminished. In addition, many of our loans are dependent on the successful completion of real estate projects and the demand for the sale of homes, both of which could be adversely impacted by a continued decline in the real estate markets. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our market would likely impair our ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have 15 caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market development s may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk ma y be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to be subject to a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Due to the difficult economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on us, we expect that we will enter into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve. While we do not know precisely what the contents of the written agreement may be, it could, among other things, limit our ability to grow our assets, open new branch offices or pay dividends and may adversely affect our operations and our financial results. In addition, we expect that our management and board of directors may be required to focus considerable time and attention on taking actions to comply with the terms of the written agreement. Recently enacted legislation, legislation enacted in the future, or any proposed federal programs subject us to increased regulation and may adversely affect us. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “CPP”). We have participated in the CPP. Because we participate in the CPP, we are subject to increased regulation, and we face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our participation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. For example, participation in the CPP limits (without the consent of the U.S. Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. In addition, the EESA, contains, among other thin gs, significant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation, which may have an adverse effect on the retention or recruitment of key members of senior management. Also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the CPP increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years. Additionally, we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes. 16 Additionally, the FDIC has increased premiums on insured accounts because market developments, including the increase of failures in the banking industry, have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Recently, the Federal Reserve adopted amendments to its Regulation E. These amendments will first apply to us on July 1, 2010. The changes will affect the circumstances surrounding when we will be able to charge our clients overdraft fees. In 2009, many emergency government programs enacted in 2008 in response to the financial crisis and the recession slowed or wound down, and global regulatory and legislative focus has generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. Legislators and regulators in the United States are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way banking operations are regulated. Some of these major changes may take effect as early as 2010, and could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement act ions and reputational risk. Certain reform proposals under consideration could result in our becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. In addition, we anticipate the enactment of certain reform proposals under consideration that would introduce stricter substantive standards, oversight and enforcement of rules governing consumer financial products and services, with particular emphasis on retail extensions of credit and other consumer-directed financial products or services. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are not able to predict when or whether regulatory or legislative reforms will be enacted or what its contents will be. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of any legislation on our businesses or operations. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, it will have an adverse effect on our net income and our ability to fund growth. While the risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking, if we experience greater nonpayment levels than we anticipate, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our monitoring, procedures, and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our shareholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any loan losses will reduce the loan loss allowance. A reduction in the loan loss allowance may be restored by an increase in our provision for loan losses. This would reduce our earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. We may pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past to fund loan growth. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, the volume of loan originations and the value we can recognize on the sale of mortgage and home equity loans in the 17 secondary market. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Based on our asset/liability position at December 31, 2009, a rise in interest rates would negatively impact our net interest income in the short term. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary, and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our balance sheet to minimize the effects of interest rate fluctuation on our net interest margin. Our results of operations depend on the stability of our net interest margin, which is the difference in the yield we earn on our earning assets and our cost of funds, both of which are influenced by interest rate fluctuations. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits are heavily influenced by competitive factors. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional, or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. Our long-term goal is to maintain a balanced position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates, the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly , we may not be successful in maintaining this position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer, which will negatively impact our earnings. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The banking business is highly competitive, and we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. Some of these competitors are subject to similar regulation, but have the advantages of larger established custome r bases, higher lending limits, extensive branch networks, numerous ATMs, greater advertising-marketing budgets and other factors. Valley Bank encounters strong competition from a variety of bank and non-bank financial service providers. These competitors include commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, money market mutual funds, mortgage banks, leasing, and finance companies., In addition, the delivery of financial services has changed significantly with the telephone, ATM, personal computer and the Internet being used to access information and perform banking transactions. Competition in our target market area for loans to businesses, professionals, and consumers is very strong. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer certain services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services that we cannot provide. Moreover, larger institutions operating in the Roanoke market have access to borrowed funds at lower cost than we will have available. Several community banks are headquartered in our trade area. Several regional and super-regional banks, as well as a number of credit unions, also have banking offices 18 in our market area. Competition among institutions for checking and savings deposits in the area is intense. We do not plan to pay cash dividends on common stock in the immediate, foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Our ability to declare and pay cash dividends will be dependent upon, among other things, restrictions imposed by the reserve and capital requirements of Virginia and federal banking regulations, our income and financial condition, tax considerations and general business conditions. We are required, through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program to pay a quarterly 5% dividend on our cumulative perpetual preferred stock, series A, to the United States Department of the Treasury. In accordance with our acceptance of funds from the U.S. Treasury, cash dividends on common stock are not permitted without prior approval from the U.S. Department of Treasury. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result, credit losses may occur in the future. Our legal lending limit may limit our growth. We are limited in the amount we can lend to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2009, we were permitted, by law, to lend approximately $11.0 million to any one borrower. However, we have set a “house lending limit” of approximately $7.7 million. This amount is significantly less than many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transa ctions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our clients relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rate; that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed our current estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loa n portfolio, we 19 cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations depend upon third party vendors that perform services for us. We outsource many of our operating and banking functions, including our data processing function, our item processing and the interchange and transmission services for our ATM network. As such, our success and our ability to expand our operations depend on the services provided by these third parties. Disputes with these third parties can adversely affect our operations. We may not be able to engage appropriate vendors to adequately service our needs, and the vendors that we engage may not be able to perform successfully. Our ability to operate profitably may be dependent on our ability to implement various technologies into our operations. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking and tele-banking. Our ability to compete successfully in our market may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. If we are not able to afford such technologies, properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies, or properly train our staff to use such technologies, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. If we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We may in the future issue additional stock, any or all of which will dilute your percentage ownership and, possibly, the value of your shares. Our board of directors has the authority to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued common shares without prior shareholder approval and without allowing the shareholders the right to purchase their pro rata portion of such shares. This includes shares authorized to be issued under our equity incentive plans. The issuance of any new common shares will dilute your percentage ownership, and could dilute the value of your shares. There is a limited trading market for our common stock; it may be difficult to sell our shares after you have purchased them. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “VYFC.” The volume of trading activity in our stock is relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such market will continue, or that you will be able to share your shares at or above your purchase price. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 