Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We expect to continue to operate at a loss, we may not be able to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities, and we may never achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1990, including net losses of $98.5 million in 2008, $181.0 million in 2007, $274.3 million in 2006, and $228.0 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,366.4 million. The process of developing and commercializing our products requires significant R&D work, preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approvals, significant marketing and sales efforts, and manufacturing capabilities. These activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, require significant investments and are expected to continue to result in significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. We have only two approved products. Our lead approved product is Ranexa® (ranolazine extended-release tablets), which we have been selling in the United States since March 2006. In September 2007, we submitted a supplemental new drug application to the FDA which included the results of the MERLIN TIMI-36 study. In July 2008, we were informed by the FDA that it was continuing its review. In November 2008, the FDA approved new product labeling that includes a new, first line indication for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina and significant reductions in cautionary wording. The new labeling also provides information showing that Ranexa reduced arrhythmias in patients with coronary artery disease (including ventricular arrhythmias, new onset atrial fibrillation and bradycardia). In addition, the new labeling states that Ranexa reduces hemoglobin A1c, or HbA1c, in coronary artery disease patients with diabetes. Also in July 2008, we received marketing authorization from the European regulatory authorities for ranolazine in all 27 European Union member states. Ranolazine is now approved for marketing in the European Union as Ranexa® (ranolazine prolonged-release tablets), subject to numerous required pricing and/or reimbursement approvals in countries and/or regions within the European Union. In this territory Ranexa is approved for use as add-on therapy for the symptomatic treatment of patients with chronic stable angina who are inadequately controlled or intolerant to first-line anti-anginal therapies. In September 2008, we entered into an agreement granting exclusive rights to Ranexa in the European Union and other specified territories to Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA or Menarini. The licensed territory encompasses 68 countries, including the 27 member states of the European Union, Russia and the other member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, and select countries in Central and South America. Under the agreement with Menarini, in the licensed territory Menarini is responsible for commercialization of Ranexa and for pursuing regulatory and pricing approvals for the product, where required, and we have agreed to transfer the approved marketing authorization in the European Union to Menarini. The agreement also provides mechanisms for us to collaborate and share with Menarini the costs of joint development programs for Ranexa in which Menarini elects to participate. In exchange for license rights to the product and in recognition of R&D investments made by us in Ranexa, we received an upfront payment of $70.0 million in September 2008. In addition, Menarini will potentially make additional payments and investments for commercial and development milestones and promotional and detailing commitments. The commercial milestones are primarily linked to product sales levels, and the development milestones are linked to approval of Ranexa in Europe for certain additional indications if they are jointly developed. We are entitled to receive royalties on sales of Ranexa in the territories covered by the agreement. In the first quarter of 2009, Menarini is launching Ranexa in the United Kingdom and Germany, with commercial launch in other countries in the European Union expected subject to Menarini’s receipt of acceptable pricing and reimbursement authorizations in those countries. Launch by Menarini of the product in any of the 41 other countries in the licensed territory outside of the European Union will not occur unless and until Menarini submits one or more regulatory approval applications for the product in such country(ies), obtains regulatory approval(s) to market the product, and receives acceptable pricing and reimbursement authorizations in those countries as required. 17 Table of Contents In addition to Ranexa, our other currently approved product is Lexiscan® (regadenoson) injection, which was approved in the United States by the FDA in April 2008. This product was launched in June 2008 and is being sold by our collaborative partner, Astellas Pharma US, LLC (formerly Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc.) or Astellas, in the United States, under an arrangement pursuant to which we receive royalties equal to a percentage of net sales. To date, the product revenues we have recognized, including those relating to our lead approved product, Ranexa, have not been sufficient for us to achieve profitability or fund our operations, including our research, development and commercialization activities relating to Ranexa and our product candidates. Unless there is a substantial increase in sales of Ranexa, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or maintain operations at our current levels or at all. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. As we have transitioned from a R&D-focused company to a company with commercial operations and revenues, we expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate. Our expenses, including payments owed by us under licensing, collaborative or manufacturing arrangements, are highly variable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our product revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate due to numerous factors, many of which we cannot control. For example, factors affecting the revenues we receive relating to our approved products, including our lead product Ranexa (which we sell in the United States and for which we expect to receive a portion of net sales in the territory licensed to Menarini) as well as Lexiscan® (for which we receive a portion of net sales in the territory licensed to Astellas) or any other commercial pharmaceutical product sold by us (or any of our collaborative partners), include, without limitation: • the timing and success of product launches by us, especially relating to our continued commercialization of Ranexa in the United States now that the FDA approved new, improved labeling for the product in November 2008; • whether or not we are able to generate substantially greater product revenues for Ranexa in the United States over time now that the FDA has approved new, improved labeling for the product that includes a new, first line indication for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina, and significant reductions in cautionary wording, information showing that Ranexa reduced arrhythmias in patients with coronary artery disease, and information that Ranexa reduces HbA1c in patients with diabetes; • the timing and success of product launches by our collaborative partners, especially by Menarini with respect to Ranexa in the European Union (and the rest of the licensed territory), and by Astellas with respect to Lexiscan® in the United States; • the level of demand for our products, including physician prescribing patterns; • wholesaler and other customer buying patterns, inventory maintenance decisions, product returns and contract terms; • product pricing as well as available reimbursement and/or limitations, especially in markets where government pricing and/or reimbursement approvals are mandated (such as many member states within the European Union); • the results of clinical studies of our products; • the length of time it takes for an approved product to achieve market acceptance, if at all; • the rebates, discounts and administrative fees on sales of our products that we or our collaborative partners (including Menarini and Astellas) provide to customers and other third parties; 18 Table of Contents • the extent to which patients fill prescriptions written by their doctors for our products, the dosages prescribed, and the amount of co-payments patients are required to make to fill their prescriptions; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, our or our collaborative partners’ product promotional materials and programs; • government regulations or regulatory actions, such as product recalls; • increased competition from new or existing products or therapies, including lower-priced generic products and alternatives to drug treatment such as interventional medicine; • changes in our contract manufacturing activity, including the availability or lack of commercial supplies of our products and samples for promotion and distribution, since we and our collaborative partners (including Menarini and Astellas) rely entirely on a supply chain of contract manufacturers; • the timing of non-recurring license fees and the achievement of milestones and royalties on net sales under new and existing license and collaborative agreements (including our arrangements with Menarini and with Astellas); • our and our collaborative partners’ product marketing, promotion, distribution, sales, pricing and reimbursement strategies and programs; • the timing and success of Menarini in connection with any product launch of Ranexa anywhere in the European Union or other countries licensed to Menarini; • whether or not we, on our own or with a collaborative partner, commercialize Ranexa to broader prescriber audiences in the United States (such as internists and general practitioners), and the timing and success of any such commercialization efforts in the United States; • changes in interest rates, changes in credit ratings and the liquidity of our interest-bearing investments, and the effects that such changes may have on the value of those investments; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our securities may decline significantly. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. We may be unable to accurately estimate demand and monitor wholesaler inventory of Ranexa. Although we attempt to monitor wholesaler inventory of Ranexa, we also rely on third party information, which is inherently uncertain and may not be accurate, to assist us in monitoring estimated inventory levels and prescription trends. Inaccurate estimates of the demand and inventory levels of the product may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below expectations. Inventory levels of Ranexa held by wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. During the full year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 93% of our product sales in the United States were to three wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp. Inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to wholesalers do not match end user demand. We have entered into inventory management agreements with these U.S. wholesalers under which they provide us with data regarding inventory levels at these wholesalers. However, these wholesalers may not be completely effective in matching inventory levels to end user demand, as they are required to make estimates to determine end user demand. In addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and 19 Table of Contents other non-wholesaler locations, for which we have no inventory management agreements and have no control with respect to their buying patterns. Also, the non-retail sector in the United States, which includes government institutions and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter-over-quarter fluctuations in inventory and ordering patterns. We attempt to monitor inventory of Ranexa in the United States through inventory reporting from wholesalers and prescription reporting from third parties, among other factors. We also rely on third party data to assist us in monitoring estimated pharmacy and other non-wholesaler inventory levels and prescription trends. The information provided by third parties to quantify inventory levels and prescriptions trends is inherently uncertain and may not be accurate. Because the methodology behind the third party information is proprietary, we are unable to quantify why third party estimates of inventory and of prescription trends for Ranexa may be accurate or inaccurate quarter to quarter. Under our arrangement with Menarini, pricing and reimbursement for the product in the Menarini territories are not our responsibility, and we have no control over these aspects of commercializing the product in the licensed territory. Prices for Ranexa in the territories licensed to Menarini will be based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. Ranexa sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if Ranexa is imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. Historically, there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to European countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. If this happens with Ranexa, our royalties from sales under our agreement with Menarini would be likely to be adversely affected. In addition, any parallel trade of Ranexa, meaning purchases of Ranexa in countries where selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which selling prices are relatively high, may adversely impact sales and may cause sales of Ranexa to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, adversely impacting our royalties. Purchases of Ranexa in countries where the product’s selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which the product’s selling prices are relatively high may affect the inventory levels held by wholesalers and cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and become more difficult to forecast. Wholesalers may also attempt to arbitrage the pricing differential between countries by purchasing excessive quantities of Ranexa. These activities may result in inaccurate estimates of inventory levels and in fluctuating quarterly sales in certain countries that do not reflect the actual demand for Ranexa from customers. Such inaccurate estimates of inventory levels and quarterly fluctuations in sales may adversely impact our royalties under our agreement with Menarini. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels may result in inadequate or excessive inventory production, product supply in distribution channels, product availability at the retail level, and unexpected increases or decreases in orders from our major customers. Any of these events may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below expectations. We may need substantial additional capital in the future. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we may be unable to continue to commercialize our products or continue our R&D activities or continue any of our other operations at current levels, or we may need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $263.4 million, compared to $174.2 million at December 31, 2007. We currently expect that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to fund our operations at our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities for at least 12 months. However, our estimates of future capital use are uncertain (in part because they are dependent on product revenue assumptions, as well as assumptions regarding royalties and license revenue and collaboration, milestone and other revenue assumptions), and changes in our commercialization plans or results, partnering activities, regulatory requirements and other developments may impact our revenues, increase our rate of spending or otherwise decrease the period of time our available resources will fund our operations. We currently expect total operating costs and expenses, not including cost of sales, to be approximately $255.0 million to $265.0 million for the full fiscal year 2009, compared to $217.2 million for the full fiscal year 2008. 20 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will generate and/or receive sufficient product, royalties and license, collaboration, milestone and other revenues in the near term to achieve profitability or to fully fund our operations, including our research, development and commercialization activities relating to our lead product Ranexa and our product candidates. Thus we may require substantial additional funding in the form of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborative partnerships and/or licensing arrangements in order to continue our research, development and commercialization activities. The amount of additional funding that we may require depends on many factors, including, without limitation: • the amount of revenues that we are able to obtain from our products, especially Ranexa in the United States, and the time and costs required to achieve those revenues; • whether or not we, on our own or with a collaborative partner, successfully commercialize Ranexa to broader prescriber audiences in the United States (such as internists and general practitioners), the timing and success of any such commercialization efforts in the United States, and if we partner the product in the United States, the amount of funding and revenues received up front and over time from such partner in exchange for those commercialization rights; • the amount of milestones, additional payments and royalty revenues that we are able to obtain over time in connection with Menarini’s development and commercialization of Ranexa in the licensed territory, as well as the timing and success of Menarini’s product launches and its level of promotional activity and degree of success in markets in the licensed territory (especially in Germany and the United Kingdom, where Menarini is launching Ranexa in the first quarter of 2009, and in other significant markets in the licensed territory); • the amount of royalty revenues that we are able to obtain over time from Astellas’s sales of Lexiscan® including Astellas’s level of promotional activity and degree of success in gaining market acceptance for Lexiscan®, and Astellas’s level of promotional activity and degree of success in convincing physicians to switch from its current pharmacologic stress agent for use in myocardial perfusion imaging studies, Adenoscan® (adenosine injection) or other agents to Lexiscan®; • the timing, scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the costs of commercializing the products we or our collaborative partners (including Menarini and Astellas) sell, including marketing, promotional and sales costs, product pricing, reimbursement and discounts, rebates and product return rights extended to customers; • the costs of manufacturing or obtaining preclinical, clinical and commercial materials; • progress in our R&D programs; • the time and costs involved and degree of success achieved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for our products; • our ability to establish collaborative partnerships, and to maintain collaborative partnerships, including our arrangement with Menarini relating to Ranexa and our arrangement with Astellas relating to Lexiscan®; • competing technological and market developments; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patents and other intellectual property interests; and 21 Table of Contents • the costs of servicing our debt obligations, the costs to repurchase debentures and/or notes at their specified repurchase dates or repurchase triggers in cash (if we elect to use cash instead of common stock), and our obligation to pay off the principal of our outstanding debentures and notes at maturity in cash (unless the holders of the debentures and notes elect conversion into stock). In April 2006, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Azimuth which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the purchase agreement, Azimuth is committed to purchase up to $200.0 million of our common stock, or 9,010,404 shares, whichever occurs first, at a discount of 3.8% to 5.8% of the daily volume weighted average price of our common stock, to be determined based on our market capitalization at the start of each sale period. The term of the purchase agreement ends May 1, 2009, and in 2006 Azimuth purchased an aggregate of 2,744,118 shares for proceeds, net of issuance costs, of approximately $39.8 million under the purchase agreement. Upon each sale of our common stock to Azimuth under the purchase agreement, we have also agreed to pay Reedland Capital Partners a placement fee equal to one fifth of one percent of the aggregate dollar amount of common stock purchased by Azimuth. Azimuth is not required to purchase our common stock when the price of our common stock is below $10 per share. Assuming that all 6,266,286 shares remaining for sale under the purchase agreement were sold at the $9.21 closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2008, the additional aggregate net proceeds, assuming the largest possible discount, that we could receive under the purchase agreement with Azimuth would be approximately $54.3 million. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may, among other things: • have to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and/or development programs; • have to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our commercialization activities; • lose rights under existing licenses; • have to relinquish more of, or all of, our rights to products or product candidates on less favorable terms than we would otherwise seek; and • be unable to operate as a going concern. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, including sales of common stock to Azimuth under our equity line of credit, our existing stockholders will experience dilution. The success of our company is largely dependent on the success of Ranexa in the United States and Menarini’s ability to commercialize the product in the licensed territory. We launched Ranexa in the United States ourselves in March 2006 and recognized revenues from sales of Ranexa for the first time in the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Ranexa is currently our lead commercial product, and we expect that Ranexa will account for all of our direct product sales for at least the next several years, unless we obtain rights to other approved products. In order for us to successfully commercialize Ranexa in the United States, our sales of the product must increase significantly from current levels. One of many factors that impacts our sales of the product in the United States is the reach and effectiveness of our sales force. In May 2007, we announced significant operating expense reductions, which included significant reductions in the field sales organization and headquarters commercial personnel and significant reductions in sales and marketing program expenditures. These changes included significant reductions in the number of sales territories, which has resulted in less overall coverage for our sales territories in the aggregate as well as larger territories for many sales personnel. We continue to invest significant amounts of capital in connection with the commercialization of Ranexa as well as further development of the product. Our continued substantial investments in Ranexa are based in part on 22 Table of Contents market forecasts, which are inherently highly uncertain. Market forecasts are particularly uncertain in the case of Ranexa because Ranexa is a relatively new product with a novel mechanism of action and is the first new drug therapy for chronic angina in the United States in over 20 years. If we fail to significantly increase our level of Ranexa sales in the United States over time, and/or if we fail to obtain significant milestone and additional payments and royalties from Menarini in connection with sales of Ranexa in its licensed territory over time, our ability to generate product revenues, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities will all be materially impaired, and the price of our common stock will decline. As a result, the success of our company continues to be largely dependent on the success of Ranexa in the United States (where we sell the product ourselves) and in the territory where we licensed product rights to Menarini. We believe that the product has potential in the general practitioner market in the United States now that the FDA has approved Ranexa as first-line therapy for patients suffering from chronic angina. However, we do not presently have the resources to market and promote in broad markets, and the revenues we expect to recognize for the foreseeable future from Ranexa may not be sufficient for us to reach broader markets on our own. As a result we may be dependent on being able to enter into one or more collaborative partnership and/or co-promotion arrangements in order to reach broader markets in the United States, and we may not be able to successfully enter into any such arrangement with third parties on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, under any such arrangement, our future revenues for Ranexa may depend heavily on the success of any such third party and we may have limited or no control over their resources and activities. Alternatively, to the extent that we expend resources to promote the product ourselves in broad markets in the United States, our operating expenses will increase, perhaps significantly. We have only a small number of personnel outside the United States and do not have the resources to commercialize Ranexa in the European Union or other major potential markets on our own. In the European Union and other countries where we licensed the rights to the product to Menarini in September 2008, we are dependent on Menarini to reach these markets. Under this arrangement, our future revenues for Ranexa in the European Union and other countries licensed to Menarini will depend on Menarini’s success and we will have limited or no control over its resources and activities under this arrangement. The cost of goods for Ranexa (which includes a royalty we owe to Roche on sales of the product) may make it challenging or prohibitive for Menarini to profitably commercialize the product in one or more key countries, especially where national and/or regional price and reimbursement controls are prevalent (particularly in the European Union). Ranexa may not achieve market acceptance or generate substantial revenues in the United States even with improved product labeling, and Ranexa may not achieve market acceptance or generate substantial revenues in the European Union or other parts of the territory licensed to Menarini. The marketing acceptance of Ranexa, as well as any of our other products or product candidates, depends on many factors that are not within our control. Ranexa is currently our lead approved product. If Ranexa fails to achieve broader market acceptance than it has to date, even with the improved product labeling approved by the FDA for the United States, and/or if Ranexa as commercialized by Menarini is not widely launched or fails to achieve broad market acceptance in the European Union and other significant markets in the licensed territory, our product sales and our ability to maintain our current levels of research, development and commercialization activities, as well as our ability to become profitable in the future, will all be adversely affected. Many factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of Ranexa in the United States and/or in the European Union or other significant potential markets (as well as the market acceptance of any of our other products or product candidates, if approved), including, without limitation: • product labeling; • our or our collaborative partner’s product marketing, promotion, distribution sales, pricing and reimbursement strategies and programs and the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; 23 Table of Contents • the ability to provide acceptable evidence of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of competing products or therapies; • new data or adverse event information relating to the product or any similar products, especially the data from our MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial in the case of Ranexa; • regulatory actions resulting from new data or information or other factors, especially with regards to Ranexa in the United States; • regulatory actions relating to the marketing authorization for Ranexa in the European Union (which is being transferred to Menarini), as well as regulatory actions relating to any other product applications or registrations submitted or held by Menarini in the licensed territory; • the extent to which physicians do or do not prescribe a product to the full extent encompassed by product labeling or prescribe a product inconsistently with product labeling; • regulatory constraints on, or delays in the review of, product promotional materials and programs; • the perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the product’s safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and convenience compared to that of alternative or competing products or therapies; • patient and physician satisfaction with the product; • publicity concerning the product or similar products; • the introduction, availability, prescriber preference for and acceptance of alternative or competing treatments, including lower-priced generic products and procedures (such as stents) over drug therapy; • the availability and level of profitable pricing and acceptable third-party reimbursement for the product, including the ability to gain formulary acceptance and favorable formulary positioning and reimbursement for the product on government and private formularies, and the discounts, rebates and other price concessions offered in return; • our and our collaborative partner’s ability to satisfy post-marketing safety surveillance responsibilities and safety reporting requirements; • whether regulatory authorities impose risk management programs on the product, and the degree of restrictiveness and impact of any such programs on physician prescribing and/or patient access to the product; • the continued availability of third parties to manufacture and distribute the product and product samples for us on acceptable terms, and their continued ability to manufacture commercial-scale quantities of the product successfully and on a timely basis, since we and our collaborative partners (including Menarini and Astellas) rely entirely on a supply chain of contract manufacturers; • the size of the overall market(s) for the product; • the outcome of patent or product liability litigation, if any, related to the product; • regulatory developments relating to the development, manufacture, commercialization or use of the product; and • changes in the regulatory or business environment. 24 Table of Contents We believe that the approved product labeling for Ranexa has had and will continue to have a direct impact on marketing, promotional and sales programs and marketing acceptance for this product. For example, in the European Union, the product labeling approved by European regulatory authorities contains cautionary statements relating to various matters, including prolongation of the QT interval (which is a specific interval in an electrocardiogram measurement of the heart). In addition, what pricing and reimbursement levels will be achievable for Ranexa in the European Union, which has many country and regional pricing and reimbursement restrictions, as well as in other significant markets licensed to Menarini, and which Menarini is responsible for seeking, will be impacted by the approved product labeling as well as other factors. In addition, we believe that physician prescribing patterns are substantially affected by their perceptions of a product, particularly in the case of a relatively new product such as Ranexa. We believe that many physicians’ perceptions of Ranexa in the United States have been negatively impacted by the initially approved product labeling for Ranexa in that market. For example, the initial product labeling approved by the FDA in 2006 contained contraindications, warnings and other cautionary statements regarding a potential safety risk of QT prolongation and a type of fatal arrhythmia, among other potential risks. Even though in November 2008 the FDA approved improved product labeling for Ranexa (including a new, first line indication for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina, and significant reductions in cautionary wording, information showing that Ranexa reduced arrhythmias in patients with coronary artery disease, and information that Ranexa reduces HbA1c in patients with diabetes), favorably modifying physician perceptions for the product may prove very difficult for us with the relatively limited resources available to us, which would impact product acceptance and revenues over time. In particular, it may be difficult to change physicians’ existing perceptions of the product and achieve increased product revenues in the United States. We must submit all promotional materials to the FDA at the time of first use, including in connection with any potential FDA approval(s) of any of the pending applications relating to Ranexa. If the FDA raises concerns regarding our proposed or actual promotional materials, we may be required to modify or discontinue using them and provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners. We do not know whether our promotional materials will allow us to achieve market acceptance for Ranexa. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries, and the market for cardiovascular drugs in particular, are intensely competitive. Ranexa and any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval will compete with well-established, proprietary and generic cardiovascular therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years and are widely used and accepted by health care practitioners. In addition to direct competition, our products will also have to compete against the promotional efforts for other products in order to be noticed by physicians and patients. The level of promotional effort in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical markets has increased substantially over time. Market acceptance of our products will be affected by the level of promotional effort that we and our collaborative partners (including Menarini) are able to provide. The level of our promotional efforts will depend in part on our (and our collaborative partners’) ability to train, deploy and retain an effective sales and marketing organization, as well as our ability to secure additional financing. We cannot assure you that the level of promotional effort that we will be able to provide for our products or the levels of additional financing we are able to secure, if any, will be sufficient to obtain market acceptance of our products. We may also be hampered in our promotional efforts by a lack of familiarity with our company and our products among healthcare practitioners. 25 Table of Contents The successful commercialization of some of our products is substantially dependent on the successful and timely performance of our collaborative partners and other vendors, over whom we have little or no control. We are dependent on the performance of our key collaborative partners for the successful commercialization of one of our approved products and some of our product candidates. Our key collaborative partnerships include the following: • Biogen Idec Inc. (formerly Biogen Inc.)—a March 1997 royalty-bearing license agreement under which we licensed rights to Biogen Idec to develop and commercialize products produced based on our A1 adenosine receptor antagonist patents or technologies, which Biogen Idec has labeled its Adentri® program; • Astellas—a July 2000 collaboration and license agreement to develop and commercialize second generation pharmacologic cardiac stress agents, including Lexiscan® which received FDA approval in April 2008; and • Menarini—a September 2008 license, development and supply agreement under which Menarini has the rights to commercialize Ranexa in the European Union (where Ranexa received marketing authorization in July 2008) and other countries covered by this agreement. The successful commercialization of each of these programs depends very significantly on the efforts of these collaborative partners. For example, under our agreement with Menarini, we are responsible for supplying product to Menarini (through our contract manufacturers), and Menarini is solely responsible for, and has sole decision-making authority regarding, all aspects of the distribution, pricing, reimbursement, marketing, promotion and sales of the product in the licensed territory. Menarini is also responsible for pursuing regulatory and pricing approvals, and we have transferred the approved marketing authorization in the European Union to Menarini. The agreement provides mechanisms for us to collaborate and share with Menarini the costs of joint development programs for Ranexa in which Menarini elects to participate, and also provides for certain promotional and detailing commitments. In the first quarter of 2009, Menarini is launching Ranexa in the United Kingdom and Germany, with commercial launch in other countries in the European Union expected subject to Menarini’s receipt of acceptable pricing and reimbursement authorizations in those countries. Launch by Menarini of the product in any of the 41 other countries in the licensed territory outside of the European Union will not occur unless and until Menarini submits one or more regulatory approval applications for the product in such country(ies), obtains regulatory approval(s) to market the product, and receives acceptable pricing and reimbursement authorization(s) in those countries as required. While the agreement specifies certain minimum levels of commercial expenditure and effort for an initial period after launch of the product in certain major European countries, we cannot control, and may not even know, the level of investment Menarini makes or the degree of priority that Menarini places on Ranexa compared to its other products and programs, and Menarini has a large number of other product-related arrangements in place. Among other things, we will not be able to control Menarini’s activities or expenditures relating to commercialization of Ranexa, or the degree of motivation or success of Menarini in gaining market acceptance for the product and in convincing physicians to prescribe it. In addition, under our agreement with Astellas, we have transferred the new drug application for Lexiscan® to Astellas, and Astellas launched commercial sales of the product in the United States in June 2008. Astellas is now solely responsible for, and has sole decision-making authority regarding, all aspects of the development, commercial manufacture, distribution, pricing, reimbursement, marketing, promotion and sales of Lexiscan® in North America. As a result, we cannot control, and will not know, the level of investment Astellas makes or the degree of priority that Astellas places on the Lexiscan® program compared to its other products and programs, including compared to its current product for use in myocardial perfusion imaging studies, Adenoscan® (adenosine injection), which is well established in the U.S. market, and we will not know if Astellas has any commitments to the licensor of that product to Astellas that might affect these factors. Among other things, we will not be able to control Astellas’s level of activity or expenditure relating to the manufacture (including 26 Table of Contents inventory build-up) or commercialization of Lexiscan®, or the degree of motivation or success of Astellas in gaining market acceptance for Lexiscan® and in convincing physicians to switch from Astellas’s current pharmacologic stress agent Adenoscan® or other agents to Lexiscan®. Similarly, Biogen Idec has sole responsibility for all worldwide development and commercialization of products from the Adentri® program, if any. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that any of our collaborative partners (including Menarini and Astellas) devote to our programs or products. Conflicting priorities, competing demands, other product opportunities or other factors that we cannot control and of which we may not be aware may cause any of our collaborative partners to deemphasize our programs or to pursue competing technologies or product candidates. For example, under our agreement with Astellas, Astellas is obligated to use commercially reasonable diligent efforts consistent with industry standards to carry out its responsibilities to manufacture, market, promote and sell Lexiscan® in the United States. The agreement does not obligate Astellas to satisfy any minimum detailing or commercialization expenditure requirements with respect to Lexiscan® . Our agreement with Menarini relating to Ranexa contains certain promotional and detailing commitments that are limited in scope and duration. To the extent that we enter into additional co-promotion or other commercialization arrangements in the future, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of third parties over which we will have little control. These arrangements may also fail to provide significant protections or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform. In addition, these arrangements are each complex, and disputes may arise between the parties, which could lead to litigation as well as delays in or termination of the development or commercialization of the products or product candidates involved. If Menarini fails to successfully and widely launch, market and sell Ranexa in its licensed territory (including the European Union), or if we (through our contract manufacturers) fail to adequately supply products to Menarini, we will receive minimal or even no revenues under the arrangement. If Astellas fails to successfully manufacture, market and sell Lexiscan® in North America, we will receive minimal or even no revenues under the arrangement. If Biogen Idec fails to successfully develop and commercialize any product from the Adentri® program, we will receive no revenues under the arrangement. Our successful commercialization of Ranexa also depends on the performance of numerous third-party vendors over which we have little control. For example, we rely entirely on third-party contract manufacturers and other vendors to manufacture and distribute Ranexa in the United States and to manufacture and supply Ranexa for the territory licensed to Menarini (which includes the European Union), to administer our physician sampling programs relating to Ranexa in the United States, and to perform some important sales and marketing operations functions for us in the United States, such as our product call centers, warehousing and the logistics related to product ordering and distribution. As a result, our level of success in commercializing Ranexa depends significantly on the efforts of these third parties, as well as our collaborative partners (including Menarini). If these third parties fail to perform as expected, our ability to market and promote Ranexa would be significantly compromised. The commercialization of the product we sell in the United States, Ranexa, is substantially dependent on our ability to develop and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities in that market. Our successful commercialization of Ranexa in the United States depends on our ability to develop and maintain an effective sales and marketing organization in the United States. We have hired, trained and deployed our first sales force, which is a national cardiovascular specialty sales force, and which began promoting Ranexa in March 2006. In May 2007 we announced significant reductions in our field sales organization and headquarters sales and marketing personnel as well as significant reductions in sales and marketing program expenditures. We significantly reduced the number of sales territories, which has resulted in less overall coverage for our sales 27 Table of Contents territories in the aggregate as well as larger territories for many sales personnel. The current size of our sales force may not be adequate to promote to the entire potential market for Ranexa. The success of our marketing and promotional strategies will also depend on our ability to recruit and retain the caliber of sales representatives necessary to implement our strategy, which focuses on promotion to cardiologists. The territory realignment and operating expense and headcount reductions we undertook in 2007, perceptions of corporate instability, negative perceptions regarding our lead product Ranexa, or other factors could significantly limit our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified sales personnel with the level of technical, selling and institutional experience we would like our pharmaceutical sales personnel to have, which could significantly delay or hinder the success of our commercial strategies, and could result in lower market acceptance and product revenues for Ranexa. We may increase or decrease the size of our U.S. sales force in the future, or change territory alignments, depending on many factors, including the effectiveness of the sales force, marketing forecasts, product labeling, and the level of market acceptance of Ranexa, as well as any partnering or other arrangements we may enter into from time to time. Developing and implementing key marketing messages and programs, as well as deploying, retaining and managing a national sales force and additional personnel, is very expensive, complex and time-consuming. We do not know if our marketing strategies and programs will be effective. We also do not know if our sales force is sufficient in size, scope or effectiveness to compete successfully in the marketplace and gain acceptance for Ranexa. Among other factors, even with the improved product labeling approved by the FDA in November 2008, we may not be able to gain sufficient access to healthcare practitioners, which would have a negative effect on our ability to promote Ranexa and gain market acceptance and product revenues. Even if we gain access to healthcare practitioners, and even with the improved product labeling approved by the FDA in November 2008, we may not be able to change prescribing patterns in favor of Ranexa. Even after a product has been approved for commercial sale, if we or others identify previously known or unknown side effects or manufacturing problems occur, approval could be withdrawn or sales of the product could be significantly reduced. Once a product is approved for marketing, adverse effects whether known or new and unknown must be reported to regulatory authorities on an ongoing basis, and usage of any drug product in the general population is less well-controlled than in the pre-approval setting of carefully monitored clinical trial testing. In addition, once a product is approved, others are free to generate new data regarding the product, which they may publish in the scientific literature or otherwise publicize, without any control by the drug manufacturer. If we or others (including our collaborative partners or regulatory authorities) identify previously unknown side effects for any of our products, or any products perceived to be similar to our products, or if any already known side effect becomes a more serious or frequent concern than was previously thought on the basis of new data or other developments, or if manufacturing problems occur, then in any of those circumstances: • sales of the product may decrease significantly; • regulatory approval for the product may be restricted or withdrawn; • we or our collaborative partners may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians and pharmacists; • we or our collaborative partners may decide to, or be required to, reformulate the product, conduct additional preclinical or clinical studies, or change product labeling or manufacturing facilities; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • investigations and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us or our collaborative partners (for which we may be contractually obligated to indemnify and defend them). 28 Table of Contents Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of our products (by us and/or our collaborative partners) and increase our costs and expenses, and could mean that the ability to commercialize our products is seriously impaired or stopped altogether. Unlike other treatments for angina currently being used, Ranexa causes small but statistically significant increases in the QT interval, which is a specific interval in an electrocardiogram measurement of the heart. As a general matter, prolongation of the QT interval can lead to a fatal arrhythmia known as torsades de pointes. This fatal arrhythmia occurs in the general population of patients with cardiovascular disease at a low rate of incidence (although the precise rate may be difficult to establish), and can be triggered by a wide variety of factors including drugs, genetic predisposition and medical conditions that are not uncommon among patients with cardiovascular disease. Thus it is likely that some patients receiving Ranexa may be predisposed to the occurrence of torsades de pointes or other fatal arrhythmias. Also, it is inevitable that some patients receiving Ranexa will die suddenly, that in some or even many of these cases there will not be sufficient information available to rule out Ranexa as a contributing factor or cause of mortality, and that required safety reporting from physicians or from us to regulatory authorities may link Ranexa to death or other serious adverse effects. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners and/or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of Ranexa is associated with death or other serious adverse effects, any of which could mean that our ability to commercialize Ranexa in the United States, and/or Menarini’s ability to commercialize Ranexa in the licensed territory, could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether, and we may become subject to potentially significant product liability litigation and other claims against us. This would harm our business, increase our cash requirements and result in continued operating losses and a substantial decline in our stock price. If we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, it will harm our business. There are many existing drug therapies approved for the treatment of the diseases targeted by our products, and we are also aware of companies that are developing new potential drug products that will compete in the same markets as our products. Ranexa competes with several well established classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the markets in which it is approved, including generic and/or branded beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long acting nitrates, and additional potential angina therapies may be under development. In addition, surgical treatments and interventions such as coronary artery bypass grafting, percutaneous coronary intervention and stents are other options for angina patients (especially in the United States), and may be perceived by healthcare practitioners as preferred methods to treat the cardiovascular disease that underlies and causes angina. We cannot guarantee that we (or Menarini in the licensed territory) will be able to compete successfully in the market(s). There are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents, including one branded product that is well established in the U.S. market and is sold by Astellas, the same company that has licensed Lexiscan® from us. In addition, at least two potential A2A-adenosine receptor agonist compounds may be under development that could compete with Lexiscan®. We cannot guarantee that Astellas will be able to compete successfully in the market. We are also aware of companies that are developing products that may compete with our other product candidates and programs. Also, we may be unaware of other potentially competitive products, product candidates or programs. Many of these potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and sales resources. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier or obtaining approvals from regulatory authorities more rapidly or broadly than either we or our collaborative partners are able to achieve. Potential competitors may also develop products that are safer, more effective or have other potential advantages compared to those under development or proposed to be developed by us and our collaborative partners. In addition, research, development and commercialization efforts by others could render our technology or our products obsolete or non-competitive. 29 Table of Contents Failure to obtain adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations could materially adversely affect our future business, market acceptance of our products, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners (including Menarini and Astellas) to market and sell Ranexa, Lexiscan® and any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval in the future will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of Ranexa, Lexiscan® and those product candidates and other treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. In the United States, the European Union and other potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, third-party payers and governmental health administration authorities are increasingly attempting to limit and/or regulate the price of medical products and services, especially branded prescription drugs. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our and our collaborative partners’ product sales and revenues. For example, under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under Medicare Part D, and the various entities providing such coverage have set up approved drug lists or formularies and are negotiating rebates and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers, which impacts drug access, patient co-payments and product revenues, and may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices over time. These changes in Medicare reimbursement could have a negative effect on the revenue that we derive from sales of Ranexa, for example, when we provide rebates and other price concessions in order for Ranexa to be placed on approved drug lists or formularies. Any additional statutory or regulatory changes, including potential changes to Medicare Part D, could also place pressure on product pricing and usage. Even if our products are deemed to be safe and effective by regulatory authorities, third-party payers and governmental health administration authorities commonly direct patients to generic products or other lower-priced therapeutic alternatives, and there is an increasing number of such alternatives available, including numerous lower-priced generic products available to treat the condition for which Ranexa is approved which are typically available to patients for a smaller co-payment than they must pay for Ranexa. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of recently approved health care products, such as Ranexa. As a result, it can be difficult to predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for Ranexa or how the product will be positioned relative to other anti-anginal products and therapies, both in the United States and in the European Union. In the United States, we have set the wholesale acquisition cost of Ranexa at a higher price than the cost of any of the generic drugs commonly used to treat angina in the United States. Our pricing for Ranexa may result in less favorable reimbursement and formulary positioning for the product with third-party payers and under government programs including Medicare, and may result in more or higher barriers to patient access to the product such as higher co-payments and/or prior authorization requirements. Even if we obtain favorable reimbursement or formulary positioning for Ranexa, we may not be able to maintain this positioning if the product does not meet utilization expectations. If we fail to obtain or maintain favorable reimbursement or formulary positioning for Ranexa, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer the product, and patients may resist having to pay out-of-pocket for it. We are offering discounts or rebates to some customers to attempt to contract for favorable formulary status, which will lower the amount of product revenues we receive. We anticipate that the portion of our Ranexa business subject to rebates, and the level of these rebates, may increase over time, which would lower the net revenues we receive over time on every unit of product sold. In addition, our product revenues are affected by our pricing for the approved dosage strengths for Ranexa and by the dosages most commonly prescribed by physicians. To date, the lower dosage form of Ranexa is the most commonly prescribed dosage, which can impact product revenues, depending on the relative pricing of the 30 Table of Contents approved dosage forms, and can also impact the degree to which we obtain favorable formulary positioning by third-party payers. These competing factors will affect the market acceptance of Ranexa in the United States as well as the amount of product revenues we will receive for the product. In addition, in Europe, various government entities control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and often expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. For sales of Ranexa in the European Union, pricing, reimbursement and formulary approvals will be required in many countries and regions. Under our agreement with Menarini, Menarini is solely responsible for all product pricing and reimbursement strategies and programs for Ranexa in the European Union and the rest of the licensed territory. Our product revenues from Ranexa will be directly affected by the pricing obtained for the product and whether or not it receives reimbursement and formulary placement. We have only limited information to support the cost effectiveness of Ranexa, and we cannot be certain that any allowed pricing, reimbursement or formulary placement for Ranexa will be available or adequate to support Menarini’s ability to sell the product in the European Union or other countries in the licensed territory. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may affect the use of our products. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing therapies. These sorts of recommendations or guidelines could result in increased or decreased usage of our products. The perception by the investment community or stockholders that any such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased usage of our products could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have no manufacturing facilities and depend on third parties to manufacture and distribute Ranexa for us and for our collaborative partner Menarini, and to manufacture our product candidates. We do not operate, and have no current plans to develop, any manufacturing or distribution facilities, and we currently lack the resources and capability to manufacture or distribute any of our products ourselves on a commercial scale or to manufacture clinical supplies of product candidates. As a result, we are dependent on corporate partners, licensees, contract manufacturers and other third parties for the manufacturing and distribution of clinical and commercial scale quantities of all of our products and product candidates. In the case of our lead product, Ranexa, we are dependent on contract manufacturers and other third parties for the manufacturing and distribution of clinical and commercial scale quantities of Ranexa for our market (in the United States), and unless Menarini exercises certain options to supply the product through other arrangements, we will rely on the same supply chain to satisfy our contractual obligation to supply Menarini for its licensed territory (which includes the European Union). If we fail to adequately supply Menarini and do not cure such breach, under our agreement with Menarini, Menarini has the right to terminate the agreement and may retain license rights to the product at a significantly lower royalty rate. We currently rely on a single supplier at most steps in the production cycle for Ranexa, and a single party for distribution of Ranexa to wholesalers. In addition, under our agreement with Astellas relating to Lexiscan®, Astellas is solely responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of the product in the licensed territory (which includes the United States) and Astellas in turn is dependent on third parties for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the drug product, including a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient. Presently our ability to commercialize Ranexa in the United States, Menarini’s ability to commercialize Ranexa in the licensed territory, and Astellas’s ability to commercialize Lexiscan®, are each entirely dependent on these arrangements, and would be affected by any delays or difficulties in performance on the part of the parties involved. 31 Table of Contents Contract modifications or exercise of termination or other rights could also impact commercialization. For example, in the case of our Ranexa supply chain, because we rely on a single manufacturer at most steps in the production cycle for the product for both its currently approved markets (the United States and the European Union), failure of any manufacturers to supply product on a timely basis or at all, or to manufacture our product in compliance with product specifications or applicable quality or regulatory requirements, or to manufacture product or samples in volumes sufficient to meet market demand in these markets, would adversely affect our ability to commercialize Ranexa in the United States and Menarini’s ability to commercialize Ranexa in the licensed territory, could result in inventory write-offs, and could negatively affect product revenues and our operating results. We are in the process of validating a new primary supplier at a key step in the manufacturing process of Ranexa, and failure to successfully complete the validation and registration process could interrupt the supply of Ranexa. Because daily dosing of Ranexa involves a relatively large amount of the active pharmaceutical ingredient per tablet, substantial volumes of manufactured materials are required to meet even limited product demand, and there are relatively few manufacturers worldwide that have the equipment, facilities and available capacity to qualify and produce the potential amounts of materials required. If we cannot maintain at least one qualified supplier with adequate facilities and resources at each step in the Ranexa supply chain, or if there is a substantial increase in product demand in any market(s) beyond what the supply chain capacities can accommodate, we could be unable to manufacture sufficient supplies of Ranexa, which would adversely affect our ability to commercialize Ranexa in the United States and Menarini’s ability to commercialize Ranexa in the licensed territory and would harm our business. In addition, the Ranexa manufacturing process, like many pharmaceuticals, is a time-consuming process with long lead times. We (and Menarini for its licensed territory, which includes the European Union) must estimate future product demand in order to decide upon the quantity of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, tablets and final packaged product to order from our supply chain manufacturers. Our demand forecasts are based on market forecasts which are inherently highly uncertain. To the extent we and/or Menarini overestimate future product demand, that would waste our relatively limited resources on building excess inventory. If we and/or Menarini underestimate future product demand, we may not have sufficient supplies to meet demand and/or supply any collaborative partners (including Menarini) for the product, which would result in lost sales and would harm our business. Furthermore, we and our third-party manufacturers, laboratories and clinical testing sites may be required to pass pre-approval inspections of facilities by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities before obtaining marketing approvals. Even after product approval, our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers remain subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We cannot guarantee that any such inspections will not result in compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval or negatively impact our ability to maintain product approval or distribution, or require us to expend money or other resources to correct. In addition, we or our third-party manufacturers are required to adhere to stringent federal regulations setting forth current good manufacturing practices for pharmaceuticals. These regulations require, among other things, that we manufacture our products and maintain our records in a carefully prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control activities. In addition, drug product manufacturing facilities in California must be licensed by the State of California, and other states may have comparable requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses when and where needed. All of our products in development require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delay in the regulatory review or approval of any of our product candidates will harm our business. All of our products in development require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delays in the regulatory review or approval of our product candidates in development would delay market launch, increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. 32 Table of Contents Furthermore, this approval process is extremely complex, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to maintain our proposed schedules for the submission or review of any new drug application, supplemental new drug application or equivalent foreign application. If we submit any new drug application or supplemental new drug application to the FDA, the FDA must first decide whether to either accept or reject the submission for filing, and if we submit any such application to European regulatory authorities, they must first decide whether to validate it for further review. As a result, we cannot be certain that any of our submissions will be reviewed. If the FDA accepts our submission for review, the agency will also determine whether the application will undergo review on a standard ten-month review cycle or on a priority six-month review cycle. The FDA has broad regulatory discretion in granting priority review to an application, and a decision to grant priority review is never a guarantee of any particular regulatory outcome (such as approval), since the regulatory standard for making a decision to grant priority review is entirely different from the regulatory standard for deciding whether or not to approve an application for marketing. If any of our submissions are reviewed, we cannot be certain that we will be able to respond to any regulatory requests during the review period in a timely manner without delaying potential regulatory action. We also cannot be certain that any of our products or proposed product changes, such as labeling changes, will be approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. A delay in approval, or a rejection, of a marketing application in the United States or foreign markets may be based upon many factors, including regulatory requests for additional analyses, reports, clinical inspections, clinical and/or preclinical data and/or studies, questions regarding data or results, unfavorable review by advisory committees, changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and/or the emergence of new information regarding our products or other products. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to different interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory review or approval of any of our products by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. For example, some drugs that prolong the QT interval carry an increased risk of serious cardiac rhythm disturbances that can cause a type of fatal arrhythmia known as torsades de pointes, while other drugs that prolong the QT interval do not carry an increased risk of this fatal arrhythmia. Ranexa causes small but statistically significant mean increases in the QT interval. However, other clinical and preclinical data, including the results of the MERLIN TIMI-36 study (which showed no adverse trend in death or arrhythmias in patients receiving Ranexa) indicate that Ranexa does not pre-dispose patients to this fatal arrhythmia. Regulatory authorities may interpret the Ranexa data differently than we do, which could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals relating to Ranexa. Similarly, as a routine part of the evaluation of any product candidate, clinical studies are generally conducted to assess the potential for drug-drug interactions that could impact potential product safety. While we believe that the interactions between Ranexa and other drugs have been well characterized as part of our clinical development program, these data are subject to regulatory interpretation, and an unfavorable interpretation by regulatory authorities could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals of Ranexa. In connection with approval of Ranexa by European regulatory authorities, those authorities have required us to conduct a drug-drug interaction study relating to Ranexa and metroprolol. Furthermore, regulatory attitudes towards the data and results required to demonstrate safety and efficacy can change over time and can be affected by many factors, such as the emergence of new information (including as relates to other drugs and/or other medical therapies), changing policies and agency funding, staffing and leadership. We cannot be sure whether current or future changes in the regulatory environment will be favorable or unfavorable to our business prospects. We cannot predict the review time for any of our submissions with any regulatory authorities. Review times also can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and funding levels and statutory, regulatory and policy changes. We may file applications for regulatory approval of our products and product candidates in various foreign jurisdictions from time to time. For example, we currently plan to submit a marketing approval application for 33 Table of Contents regadenoson to European regulatory authorities in 2009. There are potentially important substantive differences in reviews of approval applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions such as Europe. For example, preclinical and/or clinical trials and data that are accepted by the FDA in support of a new drug application may not be accepted by foreign regulatory authorities, and trials and data acceptable to foreign regulatory authorities in support of a product approval may not be accepted by the FDA. The same clinical program (including Phase 3 studies) for regadenoson which served as the basis for approval of the product in the United States will be included in the marketing approval application we plan to submit to European regulatory authorities. The two Phase 3 studies in the clinical program, which have an identical study design, used a complex non-inferiority comparison between regadenoson and Adenoscan® based on multiple readings of reperfusion imaging scans. Approval of the product in the United States is no guarantee that any other regulatory authorities will also approve it. The successful development of drug products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time. Any delay in the development of any of our product candidates will harm our business. Successful development of drug products is highly uncertain. Product candidates that appear potentially promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for many reasons, including, without limitation: • preclinical tests may show the product candidate to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • clinical study results may show the product candidate to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • we may fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, or experience a delay in receiving such approvals, or be unable to maintain such approvals due to safety concerns, recalls, or other factors; • we may encounter difficulties in formulating the product candidate, or in obtaining clinical supplies or source(s) of commercial-scale supply; • manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues or other factors may make the product candidate uneconomical; and • third parties may have proprietary or contractual rights that may prevent or discourage the product candidate from being developed. All of our product candidates in development require further preclinical studies and/or clinical trials, and will require regulatory review and approval, prior to marketing and sale. Any delays in the development of our product candidates would delay our ability to seek and obtain regulatory approvals, increase our cash requirements, increase the volatility of our stock price and result in additional operating losses. One potential cause of a delay in product development is a delay in clinical trials. Many factors could delay completion of any of our clinical trials, including, without limitation: • slower than anticipated patient enrollment and/or event rates; • difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials; and • adverse events occurring during the clinical trials. We may be unable to maintain our proposed schedules for investigational new drug applications, which are regulatory filings made by a drug sponsor to the FDA to allow human clinical testing in the United States, and equivalent foreign applications and clinical protocol submissions to other regulatory agencies. In addition, we may be unable to maintain our proposed schedules for initiation and completion of clinical trials as a result of FDA or other regulatory action or other factors, such as lack of funding, the occurrence of adverse safety effects or other complications that may arise in any phase of a clinical trial program. 34 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract, retain or avoid disputes with collaborators, licensors and licensees, the development of our products could be delayed and our future capital requirements could increase substantially. We may not be able to attract, retain or avoid disputes with corporate or academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and other collaborative partners (including Menarini, Astellas and Biogen Idec). Our business strategy requires us to enter into various arrangements with these parties, and we are dependent upon the success of these parties in performing their obligations. If we fail to enter into and maintain these arrangements, the development and/or commercialization of our products would be delayed, we may be unable to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products or we might have to fund development of a particular product candidate internally. If we have to fund the development and commercialization of substantially all of our products internally, our future capital requirements will increase substantially. We or our collaborative partners may also have to meet performance milestones and other obligations under our collaborative arrangements. If we fail to meet our obligations under our collaborative arrangements, our partners could terminate their arrangements or we could suffer other consequences such as losing our rights to the compounds at issue. The collaborative arrangements that we may enter into in the future may place responsibility on a collaborative partner for preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing and preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval of potential pharmaceutical products. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborative partners devote to our programs. If a partner fails to successfully develop or commercialize any product, product launch would be delayed. In addition, our partners may pursue competing technologies or product candidates. In addition, arrangements in our industry are extremely complex, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights, financial provisions, and other provisions such as the parties’ respective rights with respect to decision-making. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to these issues, such as the ownership of rights to any technology developed with or by third parties. These and other possible disagreements between us and our partners could lead to delays in the research, development or commercialization of product candidates, or in the amendment or termination of one or more of our license and collaboration agreements. These disputes could also result in litigation or arbitration, which is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. Our business depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could weaken our management team, and on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The growth of our business and our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management, R&D, sales and marketing and other operating and administrative personnel. Our key personnel include all of our executive officers, other senior vice presidents and vice presidents, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge. We have entered into an employment agreement with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer that contains severance and change-of-control provisions. We have entered into executive severance agreements with each of our executive officers, other senior vice presidents and vice presidents, and have a severance plan that covers our other full-time employees. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed could limit our ability to develop and commercialize our existing and future product candidates. Such persons are in high demand and often receive competing employment offers. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could subject us to significant liability. Our R&D and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and pathogens, and the generation of waste products. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with additional environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. 35 Table of Contents We currently do not carry insurance for hazardous materials claims. We do not know if we will be able to obtain insurance that covers hazardous materials claims on acceptable terms with adequate coverage against potential liabilities, if at all. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply in all material respects with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. There can also be no assurance that our operations, business or assets will not be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Most of our foreign expenses are associated with our clinical studies or the operations of our United Kingdom-based wholly owned subsidiary. Additionally, as a result of our collaboration partnership with Menarini relating to Ranexa that covers 68 countries, including the 27 member states of the European Union, the amount of royalty revenue we receive will be impacted by fluctuations in euros as payments due on net sales by Menarini and its affiliates and sublicensees will be calculated in euros, and converted into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the last business day of the quarter for which the royalty payment is to be made. We are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates with Europe and Canada. When the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, may affect our results of operations. Any sales of ranolazine in the European Union would be denominated in foreign currencies as well, and would increase our exposure to these risks. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency risks. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Other Legal and Related Matters If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to complete development of any products and we may be put at a competitive disadvantage; and, if we are involved in an intellectual property rights dispute, we may not prevail and may be subject to significant liabilities or required to license rights from a third party, or cease one or more product programs. Our success will depend to a significant degree on, among other things, our ability to: • obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; • maintain trade secrets; • obtain trademarks; and • operate our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. 36 Table of Contents However, we cannot be certain that any patent will issue from any of our pending or future patent applications, that any issued patent will not be lost through an interference or opposition proceeding, reexamination request, litigation or other proceeding, that any issued patent will be sufficient to protect our technology and investments or prevent the entry of generic or other competition into the marketplace, or that we will be able to obtain any extension of any patent beyond its initial term. The following table shows the expiration dates in the United States for the primary compound patents for our key products and product candidates: Product/Product Candidate United StatesPrimary CompoundPatent Expiration Ranexa 2003 * Regadenoson (Lexiscan® in the United States) 2019 * Because ranolazine is a new chemical entity, under applicable U.S. laws we have received marketing exclusivity for the ranolazine compound as a new chemical entity until January 2011. In addition, the U.S. compound patent relating to Ranexa was granted several one-year interim patent term extensions under the Hatch-Waxman Act as well as final patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act, thereby extending the patent protection to May 2008 for the approved product (which is the Ranexa extended-release tablet) for the use in chronic angina approved by the FDA. However, this extended patent term protection in the United States has now expired, and in the United States and elsewhere throughout the world there is no further patent protection under the original compound patent. In the European Union (where Ranexa has also been approved by regulatory authorities and where we licensed product rights to Menarini), under applicable laws the product is entitled to ten years of exclusivity (or eleven years, in certain circumstances) after the July 2008 approval. Also, the U.S. and foreign patent and trademark office has issued patents claiming various sustained release formulations of ranolazine and methods of using sustained release formulations of ranolazine, including the formulation tested in our Phase 3 trials for Ranexa, for the treatment of chronic angina. In the United States and the European Union, these patents expire in 2019 (although we may seek limited patent term extension on a country-by-country basis in Europe until 2023 through the filing of supplementary patent certificates). In the United States, after January 2011 the statutory five year new chemical entity exclusivity will no longer be available for ranolazine and we will be entirely reliant on our owned or licensed patents in the United States claiming uses and formulations of Ranexa, especially the formulation and method of use patents described above, to continue to protect our substantial investments in Ranexa’s development and commercialization in that market. An application seeking approval for a generic version of ranolazine could be submitted to the FDA as early as January 2010, which could result in patent litigation. In the European Union, we (and our collaborative partner Menarini, who has licensed rights to the product in the European Union and other countries) will be reliant on formulation and use patents in those countries after the expiration of the applicable data exclusivity period, which could occur in 2018. Any patent infringement litigation relating to ranolazine would be expensive, time-consuming and risky to pursue. It is possible that one or more competitors could develop competing products that do not infringe our owned or licensed patent claims relating to ranolazine, or could succeed in invalidating or rendering unenforceable all or any of these patent claims. One or more of these patents could be lost through a reissue or reexamination submission or through litigation or other proceeding wherein issues of validity and/or enforceability such as inequitable conduct, inventorship, ownership, prior art, and/or enablement can be raised. One or more of these patents could also be lost as a result of interference or opposition proceedings. Any intellectual property-related claims against us relating to any of these patents, with or without merit, as well as any claims initiated by us against third parties, if any, would be time-consuming, expensive and risky to defend or prosecute, and could negatively affect our ability (as well as that of our collaborative partner Menarini) to commercialize Ranexa, the product revenues we receive and our operating results. In general, if we assert a patent against an alleged infringer and the alleged infringer is successful in invalidating one, more or all of the patents, or in having one, more or all of the patents declared unenforceable, the protection afforded by the patent(s) would be diminished or lost. Furthermore, we do not have any issued patent claims covering any intravenous formulation of ranolazine on a stand-alone basis, or any issued patent claims covering Ranexa for use in diabetes or diabetes-related conditions, and we may not be able to obtain any issued patent claims based on data and results from the MERLIN TIMI-36 study or other results. 37 Table of Contents In addition to these issued patents, we seek to file patent applications relating to each of our product candidates, and we seek trade name and trademark protection for our commercialized products such as Ranexa. Although patent applications filed in the United States are now published eighteen months after their filing date, this statutory change providing for the publication of filed patent applications applies only to applications filed on or after November 2000. Applications filed in the United States prior to this date are maintained in secrecy until a patent issues. As a result, we can never be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. There may be third-party patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property relevant to our compounds, products, services, development efforts and technology which are not known to us and that may block or compete with our compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology. For example, competitors may have filed applications for, or may have received or in the future may receive, patents, trademarks and/or other proprietary rights relating to compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology that block or compete with ours. In addition, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings determine the priority of invention and, thus, the right to a patent for the claimed technology in the United States. We may also become involved in opposition proceedings in connection with foreign patents. Generic challenges and related patent litigation are very common in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation, interference and opposition proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive, time-consuming and risky to pursue, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in any such case. Such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents or trademarks issued to us and/or to our collaborative partners, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of us or third parties, including our collaborative partners. Because Ranexa is our lead product, the uncertainty created by any patent litigation involving this product could have a negative impact on our stock price for a considerable period of time (while any such time-consuming litigation was pursued), which could make additional financing difficult to obtain. In addition, in 2007, Astellas, our collaborative partner for Lexiscan® in North America, announced a settlement of certain patent infringement lawsuits, under the terms of which a third party generic pharmaceutical manufacturer will be able to launch its generic version of Adenoscan® pursuant to a license in September 2012, or earlier under certain conditions (which have not been disclosed publicly). These developments could negatively impact the marketing of Lexiscan® and the revenues we receive under this arrangement, including if a generic version of Adenoscan® (adenosine injection) enters the market before September 2012. We also must not infringe valid patents or trademarks of others that might cover our compounds, products, services, development efforts or technology. If third parties own or have valid proprietary rights to technology or other intellectual property that we need in our product development and commercialization efforts, we may need to obtain licenses to those rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on economically reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any necessary licenses, we may be unable to complete any of our current or future product development and commercialization activities. If any such infringement of third party proprietary rights or inability to obtain any necessary licenses related to our lead product Ranexa, this could negatively affect our ability to commercialize Ranexa, product revenues and our operating results. We also rely on proprietary technology and information, including trade secrets, to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we seek to protect all of our proprietary technology and information, in part by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators, advisors and corporate partners, these agreements may be breached. We cannot assure you that the parties to these agreements will not breach them or that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or information. In addition, we routinely grant publication rights to our scientific collaborators. Although we may retain the right to delay publication to allow for the preparation and filing of a patent application covering the subject matter of the proposed publication, we cannot assure you 38 Table of Contents that our collaborators will honor these agreements. Publication prior to the filing of a patent application could mean that we would lose the ability to patent the technology in most countries outside the United States (and could also lose that ability in the United States if a patent application is not filed there within one year after such publication), and third parties or competitors could exploit the technology. Although we strive to take the necessary steps to protect our proprietary technology, including trade secrets, we may not be able to do so. As a result, third parties may gain access to our trade secrets and other proprietary technology, or our trade secrets and other proprietary technology or information may become public. In addition, it is possible that our proprietary technology or information will otherwise become known or be discovered independently by third parties, including our competitors. In addition, we may also become subject to claims that we are using or misappropriating trade secrets of others without having the right to do so. Such claims can result in litigation, which can be expensive, time-consuming and risky to defend. Litigation and disputes related to intellectual property matters are widespread in the biopharmaceutical industry. Although to date no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our compounds, products, services, technology or other matters in the future. If they do, we may not prevail and, as a result, we may be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, we may be required to license the disputed rights from the third parties or we may be required to cease using the technology or developing or selling the compounds or products at issue. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on economically reasonable terms, if at all. Any intellectual property-related claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, may be time-consuming, expensive and risky to defend or prosecute. If we assert a patent against an alleged infringer and the alleged infringer is successful in invalidating the patent, the protection afforded by the patent is lost. If we are unable to satisfy governmental regulations relating to the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates, we may be subject to significant FDA or other governmental sanctions. The research, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of product candidates and drug products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by many foreign regulatory authorities in other countries. Failure to comply with FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may subject us or our collaborative partners to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, without limitation: • warning letters and other regulatory authority communications objecting to matters such as promotional materials and requiring corrective action such as corrective communications to healthcare practitioners; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; and • regulatory authority refusal to review or approve pending approval applications for unapproved products or for labeling changes for previously approved products, and/or refusal to maintain approvals for previously approved products. 39 Table of Contents We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual violation of healthcare statutes such as fraud and abuse laws, and our corporate compliance programs can never guarantee that we are in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. Our development and commercialization efforts in the United States, and those of our collaborative partners under agreements that include the United States (such as Astellas in the case of Lexiscan® and Biogen Idec in the case of Adentri® ) are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to pharmaceutical development, promotion and healthcare fraud and abuse, including the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, and federal and state anti-kickback, fraud, false claims and privacy laws, regulations and other applicable principles. For example, in connection with our sales of Ranexa in the United States, we are required to prepare and report product pricing-related information to federal and state governmental authorities, such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and under the Medicaid program. The calculations used to generate the pricing-related information are complex and require the exercise of judgment. If we fail to accurately and timely report product pricing-related information or to comply with any of these or any other laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including criminal and/or civil prosecution, substantial criminal and/or civil penalties, exclusion of the approved product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), costly litigation and restatement of our financial statements. Our collaborative partners in the United States, such as Astellas, are also subject to these requirements and any failure to comply on their part could result in similar consequences and curtail or eliminate the revenues we receive on their sales of Lexiscan® in the United States. We and our collaborative partners (including Menarini in the case of Ranexa®, Astellas in the case of Lexiscan® and Biogen Idec in the case of Adentri®) are also subject to a large number of foreign laws and regulations relating to the development and commercialization of drug products, as well as export and import provisions. These requirements vary widely in different countries, and failure to comply would delay or prevent the successful commercialization of our products by us or our collaborative partners. Our efforts, and those of our collaborative partners, to comply with the many applicable U.S. and foreign laws, regulations and other principles are, and will continue to be, time-consuming and expensive. It may be difficult to determine whether or not our activities, or those of our collaborative partners, comply with these complex legal requirements. Violations are punishable by significant criminal and/or civil fines and other penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion of the product from coverage under governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid) or an inability to launch or maintain approval for a product in a given country. If a government entity were to investigate or make allegations against us or any of our employees, or sanction or convict us or any of our employees, for violations of any of these legal requirements, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. Similarly, if any of our collaborative partners (including Menarini, Astellas and Biogen Idec) becomes subject to investigation, allegation or sanction relating to its development or commercialization of our products, our ability to continue to obtain revenues from the sales of that product could be seriously impaired or stopped altogether. Our activities and those of our collaborative partners could be subject to challenge for many reasons, including the broad scope and complexity of these laws and regulations, the difficulties in interpreting and applying these legal requirements, and the high degree of prosecutorial and other governmental resources and attention being devoted to health care compliance. In the United States alone, numerous biopharmaceutical companies have paid multi-million dollar fines and entered into burdensome settlement agreements for alleged violation of these requirements, and other companies are under active investigation. Although we have developed and implemented corporate and field compliance programs as part of our commercialization of Ranexa, we cannot assure you that we or our employees, directors, agents or collaborative partners were, are or will be in compliance with all laws and regulations or that we or they will not come under investigation, allegation or sanction. We and our collaborative partners could also be impacted by changes in applicable U.S. or foreign legal protections and remedies relating to intellectual property or changes in requirements relating more specifically to the development, manufacture, registration, approval and commercialization of pharmaceutical or healthcare 40 Table of Contents products. We and our collaborative partners could also be impacted by unstable governments or legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business and the businesses of our collaborative partners. In addition, our future results and those of our collaborative partners could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. or foreign laws or regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws. Further, our results and those of our collaborative partners could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. or foreign business, political or economic conditions. We may be subject to product liability claims and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human drugs and other therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. For example, the approved labeling for Ranexa includes warnings regarding QT prolongation and the risk of arrhythmias and sudden death, and regarding tumor promotion. Either directly in connection with our sales of the product in the United States, or indirectly through contractual indemnification obligations related to Menarini’s commercialization of the product in the licensed territory, we may become subject to product liability claims or liabilities in the future, including if patients who have taken Ranexa die, experience arrhythmias, contract cancer, or suffer some other serious adverse effect whether or not such patients were predisposed to adverse outcomes. Any product liability claims could have a material negative effect on the market acceptance and sales of our products. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for clinical trials testing and only limited commercial product liability insurance. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to continue to develop or commercialize our products or any product candidates that may receive regulatory approval in the future. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to make substantial payments. This could adversely affect our cash position and results of operations and could increase the volatility of our stock price. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance. In the event of a major earthquake in our region, our business could suffer significant and uninsured damage and loss. We currently maintain general liability, property, auto, workers’ compensation, products liability, directors’ and officers’, employment practices, cargo and inventory, foreign liability, crime and fiduciary insurance policies. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance at all, or if so that it will have adequate levels of coverage for any liabilities. Premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly over the years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, certain types of insurance such as directors’ and officers’ insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any significant uninsured liability, or any liability that we incur in excess of our insurance coverage, may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock and Convertible Debt Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent auditors provide to us an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include in annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by management of the effectiveness of 41 Table of Contents internal control over financial reporting. This requirement applies to each of our annual report filings on Form 10-K. If we are not successful in maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, or if our service providers fail to maintain adequate internal controls on which we rely to prepare our financial statements, our management may determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. In addition, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or monitored, then they may issue an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Within the last 12 months ended January 31, 2009, our common stock has traded between $5.41 and $16.68 per share. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Announcements and other events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. For example, the release of new, improved U.S. labeling relating to our lead product, Ranexa, and perceptions regarding the product labeling or regarding our ability to successfully commercialize the product over time could have a significant negative impact on the market price for our common stock. In addition, we may have no control over information announced by third parties, such as our corporate partners or our competitors, which may impact our stock price. Other announcements and events that can impact the market price of the shares of our common stock include, without limitation: • results of our clinical trials and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; • our operating results; • our product sales and product revenues, including prescribing patterns and trends for Ranexa; • achievement of other research or development milestones, such as completion of enrollment of a clinical trial or making a regulatory filing; • adverse developments regarding the safety and efficacy of our products, our product candidates, or third-party products that are similar to our products or our product candidates; • developments in our relationships with corporate partners; • developments affecting our corporate partners; • government regulations, reimbursement changes and governmental investigations or audits related to us or to our products; • changes in regulatory policy or interpretation; • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • changes in the ratings of our securities by securities analysts; • operating results or other developments that do not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors; 42 Table of Contents • purchases or sales of our securities by investors who seek to exploit the volatility of our common stock price; • changes in interest rates, changes in credit ratings and the liquidity of our interest-bearing investments, and the effects that such changes may have on the value of those investments; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • rumors or inaccurate information; • market conditions for biopharmaceutical or biotechnology stocks in general; and • general economic and market conditions, such as the current economic recession. In addition, if we fail to reach an important research, development or commercialization milestone or result by a publicly expected deadline, even if by only a small margin, there could be a significant negative impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, as we approach the announcement of important news, we expect the price of our common stock to be particularly volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and into 2009, broad distress in the financial markets and the economy have resulted in greatly increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment have recently contributed to substantial market volatility, and if such market conditions continue, the price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial position. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $292.2 million in long-term convertible debt and aggregate annual debt service obligations on this debt of approximately $8.5 million. Holders of our 2.0% senior subordinated convertible debentures due 2023 may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures on May 16, 2010, May 16, 2013, and May 16, 2018, or in the event of a change of control of our company. In addition, holders of our 2.75% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2012 and our 3.25% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2013 may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes in the event of a change of control of our company or if our common stock ceases trading on a national securities exchange. In these circumstances, we may elect to repurchase and/or exchange debentures or notes in cash, or in whole or in part in common stock. In the event we repurchase and/or exchange debentures or notes in cash, such payment could have a material adverse effect on our cash position. In the event we repurchase and/or exchange debentures with stock, our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution. Also, at maturity, all three of the debentures and the notes must be repaid in full with cash unless the holders of the debentures or notes elect to conversion into stock. These payments at maturity would have a material adverse effect on our cash position. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations and interest expense will increase. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash and investments. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants and conditions in the indentures covering our convertible debt, such as our failure to make timely interest payments or our failure to timely file periodic reports required under the Exchange Act, could trigger a default 43 Table of Contents under our convertible debt. Any default could result in the acceleration of the payment of all of our outstanding debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and on our ability to maintain operations at our current levels or at all. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: • requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash to service our indebtedness, meet repurchase obligations and pay off the principal at maturity, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash available for other purposes, including funding our commercialization efforts, R&D programs and other capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. If we sell shares of our common stock under our equity line of credit arrangement or in other future financings, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. For example, in April 2006, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Azimuth, which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the purchase agreement, Azimuth is committed to purchase up to $200.0 million of our common stock, or 9,010,404 shares, whichever occurs first, at a discount. The term of the purchase agreement ends May 1, 2009. Azimuth is not required to purchase shares of our common stock when the price of our common stock is below $10 per share. In 2006, Azimuth purchased an aggregate 2,744,118 shares of our common stock for proceeds, net of issuance costs, of approximately $39.8 million under the purchase agreement. Our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any additional shares of our common stock by Azimuth. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders will experience dilution. We are exposed to risk related to the marketable securities we purchase. We invest cash not required to meet short term obligations in short and long term marketable securities. We purchase securities in the U.S. government, government-sponsored agencies and highly rated corporate and asset-backed securities subject to an approved investment policy. Historically, investment in these securities have been highly liquid and have experienced only very limited defaults. However, recent volatility in the financial markets has created additional uncertainty regarding the liquidity and safety of these investments. Although we believe our marketable securities investments are safe and highly liquid, we cannot guarantee that our investment portfolio will not be negatively impacted by recent or future market volatility. Provisions of Delaware law and in our charter, by-laws and our rights plan may prevent or frustrate any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and may make the acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. Our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, authorized executive severance benefit agreements for our officers in the event of a change of control, and adopted a severance plan for all non-officer employees in the event of a change of control. 44 Table of Contents In February 1999, the board declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock. The rights are governed by our stockholder rights plan, which provides, among other things, that in the event a person acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, the holders of rights (other than the acquiring person) may acquire our common stock at a discount. The effect is to discourage acquisitions of 15% or more of our common stock without negotiation with our board of directors. In December 2005, the board approved an employment agreement, which was amended and restated in December 2007, with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer that contains severance and change-of-control provisions. These various severance-related arrangements may delay or prevent a change in our current management team and may render more difficult an unsolicited merger or tender offer. In addition, the following provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our by-laws, as amended and restated, may have the effects of delaying or preventing a change in our current management and making the acquisition of our company by a third party more difficult: • our board of directors is divided into three classes with approximately one third of the directors to be elected each year, necessitating the successful completion of two proxy contests in order for a change in control of the board to be effected; • any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders and may not be effected by a consent in writing; • advance written notice and disclosure is required for a stockholder to nominate a person for election to the board of directors and for a stockholder to present a proposal at any stockholder meeting; and • directors may be removed only for cause by a vote of a majority of the stockholders or without cause by a vote of 66 2/3% of the stockholders and vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the directors in office. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholders’ approval, which also could make it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current management and for another company to acquire us. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which could delay a merger, tender offer or proxy contest or make a similar transaction more difficult. In general, this statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. If any or all of our existing notes and debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. Our existing convertible debt is convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at varying conversion prices, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of our existing convertible notes and convertible debentures. If any or all of our existing notes and debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. In addition, holders of our 2.0% senior subordinated convertible debentures due 2023 may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures on May 16, 2010, May 16, 2013, and May 16, 2018, or in the event of a change of control of our company, and holders of our 2.75% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2012 and our 3.25% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2013 may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes in the event of a change of control of our company or if our common stock ceases trading on a national securities exchange. We may elect to repurchase and/or exchange debentures or notes in cash, or in 45 Table of Contents whole or in part in common stock. In the event we repurchase and/or exchange debentures or notes in common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution to the extent of the number of shares we deliver as the payment price for such repurchase and/or exchange. If any or all of our notes and debentures are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, on maturity we will have to pay the holders of such notes or debentures the full aggregate principal amount of the notes or debentures, as applicable, then outstanding. At maturity, all three of the debentures and the notes outstanding must be repaid in full with cash unless the holders of the debentures or notes elect to conversion into stock. Any such payments would have a material adverse effect on our cash position. Alternatively, from time to time we may modify the terms of the notes and/or the debentures prior to their maturity in ways that could be dilutive to our stockholders, assuming we can negotiate such modified terms. In addition, the existence of these notes and debentures may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 