Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 16 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Our Business Our Banking subsidiary is operating under a Consent Order with the FDIC and DFI and the Company is operating under a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to address, among other things, lending, credit and capital related issues. In light of the challenging operating environment, along with our elevated level of non-performing assets, delinquencies and adversely classified assets, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and additional regulatory restrictions and became subject to certain enforcement actions under a Consent Order issued by the FDIC and DFI to the Bank on March 4, 2010 and Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Board entered into on March 4, 2010. These enforcement actions followed the FDIC’s regularly scheduled examination of our banking subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2009 and are based on discussions the Bank had with its examiners following the examination. Such enforcement actions place limitations on our business and may adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. These enforcement actions require, among other things, the Bank to take certain steps to strengthen its balance sheet, such as reducing the level of classified assets, increasing capital levels and addressing other criticisms of the examination. These enforcement actions are more fully discussed in “Supervision and Regulation – Regulatory Order and Written Agreement” and Note 22. Regulatory Order and Written Agreement, of the consolidated financial statements, filed in this Form 10-K. If the Company fails to comply with these enforcement actions, it may become subject to further regulatory enforcement actions up to and including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the Bank. The regulatory agencies have the authority to restrict our operations to those consistent with adequately capitalized institutions. For example, the regulatory agencies have imposed restrictions that place limitations on our lending activities and our ability to complete acquisitions. The regulatory agencies also have the power to limit the rates paid by the Bank to attract retail deposits in its local markets. Although We Have Been Able to Reduce the Overall Level of Classified Assets, the Level Still Remains Elevated as Compared to Our Long-term Experience and Exposes Us to Increased Lending Risk. Further, if Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Insufficient to Absorb Losses in Our Loan Portfolio, Our Earnings May Decline If the level of loans the Bank currently categorizes as substandard and doubtful do not perform according to their terms and/or the underlying collateral for such loans is insufficient to cover the Bank’s recorded investment, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb potential losses. This could result in additional loan losses which may adversely impact our operating results. Further, although we have made strides in resolving the level of classified assets in the last year, our level of remaining classified assets will still take time to resolve. While we believe that we are making progress in identifying and resolving classified assets, no assurance can be given that we will continue to make progress, particularly if the local economies in which we operate suffer further deterioration. We believe that the Company’s allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable, estimable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the probability of such borrowers making payments, as well as the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our regulators, as an integral part of their regular examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase it by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Highly Dependent On Real Estate and Any Further Downturn in the Real Estate Market May Hurt Our Business A significant portion of our loan portfolio is collateralized by real estate. Although we have seen, what we believe are the early signs of stabilization in the local economies in which we operate, a renewed decline in economic conditions, the local housing market or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans or the value of real estate owned by us, any combination of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our common stock. In addition, a large portion of the loan portfolio is collateralized by real estate that is subject to risks related to acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires. To the extent that these events occur, they may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, which may also negatively impact our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We Have a Concentration in Higher Risk Commercial Real Estate Loans We have a high concentration in commercial real estate (“CRE”) loans. CRE loans, as defined by final guidance issued by Bank regulators, are defined as construction, land development, other land loans, loans secured by multi-family (5 or more units) residential properties and loans secured by non-farm non-residential properties. Following this definition, approximately 55.4% of our lending portfolio can be classified as CRE lending as of December 31, 2011. CRE loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than certain other types of lending due, among other things, to the generally large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, commercial real estate loans generally depend on the cash flow from the property to service the debt. Cash flow may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, which may result in non-performance by certain borrowers. Additionally, federal banking regulators recently issued final guidance regarding commercial real estate lending. This guidance suggests that institutions that are potentially exposed to significant commercial real estate concentration risk will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Institutions that have experienced rapid growth in commercial real estate lending, have notable exposure to a specific type of commercial real estate lending or are approaching or exceed certain supervisory criteria that measure an institution’s commercial real estate portfolio against its capital levels, may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny because of our commercial real estate portfolio and, as a result, the Bank developed and implemented a plan to systematically reduce the amount of loans within this category as required in the Consent Order issued to the Bank on March 4, 2010. Liquidity Risk Could Impair Our Ability to Fund Operations and Jeopardize Our Financial Condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in general. We Depend on Cash Dividends from Our Subsidiary Bank to Meet Our Cash Obligations, but Our Consent Order and Written Agreement Prohibit the Payment of Such Dividends without Prior Regulatory Approval Which May Impair Our Ability to Fulfill Our Obligations As a holding company, dividends from our subsidiary bank provide a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust preferred securities, our preferred stock and other obligations, including any cash dividends. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiary bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. As outlined in the Consent Order and Written Agreement, previously mentioned, the Bank cannot pay any cash dividends or other payments to the holding company without prior written consent of the regulatory authorities. Additionally, the Company cannot declare or pay any dividends (including those on outstanding preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program) or make any distributions of principal, interest or other sums on its trust preferred securities without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. If we defer six dividend payments, the U.S. Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our Board. As of December 31, 2011, we had deferred 7 payments. The Treasury has assigned an observer to our Board of Directors, but to date we have not been notified of their intent to appoint directors to our Board. The Recent Recession and Changes in Domestic and Foreign Financial Markets Have Adversely Affected Our Industry and May Have a Material Impact on Our Operating Results and Financial Condition The recent recession has resulted in significant business failures and job losses. Further, dramatic declines in the housing market with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant losses to many financial institutions. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and volatility in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Although we believe we have seen the early signs of stabilization in these conditions in our local market, these challenging conditions may not improve or may again begin to deteriorate in the near future and we may face the following risks as a result: · Increased regulation of our industry, compliance with which may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. 18 Table of Contents · The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. · Higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, to our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Cannot Accurately Predict the Effect of the Current Economic Downturn on Our Future Results of Operations or Market Price of Our Stock The national economy and the financial services sector in particular remain challenged with weakness in the broader economy despite high levels of government stimulus. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in our markets would have an adverse effect which could be material on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline. Financial Reform Legislation Will, among Other Things, Tighten Capital Standards, Create A New Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Result in New Regulations that Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. This law significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company’s currently outstanding trust preferred securities will be grandfathered and its currently outstanding TARP preferred securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. In addition, the FDIC, along with other federal bank regulators, is required to seek to make its capital requirements for the banks it regulates, such as the Bank, countercyclical so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, one year after the date of its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution and are generally expected to increase for institutions having total assets in excess of $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts and IOLTA accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to examine the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries and gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for an electronic debit transaction by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. By regulation, the Federal Reserve Board has limited the fees for such a transaction to the sum of 21 cents plus five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs. While this rule does not apply to us directly because our asset size is less than $10 billion, such limits place practical limitations in the financial services marketplace on such fees. The Dodd-Frank Act also restricts proprietary trading by banks, bank holding companies and others, and their acquisition and retention of ownership interests in and sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to an exception allowing a bank to organize and offer hedge funds and private equity funds to customers if certain conditions are met, including, among others, a requirement that the bank limit its ownership interest in any single fund to 3% and its aggregate investment in all funds to 3% of Tier 1 capital, with no director or employee of the bank holding an ownership interest in the fund unless he or she provides services directly to the funds. 19 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act created a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The CFPB is beginning to issue rules and regulations, among them examination procedures for mortgage loan originators. It is not yet known the extent to which the regulatory activities of the CFPB will impact our results of operations and financial condition. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company. However, compliance with this law and its implementing regulations has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation-The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.” The Downgrade of the U.S. Credit Rrating and Europe’s Debt Crisis Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by U.S. government agencies and U.S. government sponsored entities. In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments May Increase Substantially Which Would Adversely Affect Our Net Earnings Although changes to the FDIC deposit insurance assessment base rate calculation reduced the level of insurance paid in 2011 to $2.5 million from the $2.7 million paid in 2010. These levels still remain elevated due to the existence of the Regulatory Order and Written Agreement. Although the Company currently expects the level of deposit insurance premiums to decline over 2012, they remain elevated as compared to pre-recession levels, which will impact future operating results. Declines in the Value of Our Investment Portfolio Securities May Result in Impairment Charges and May Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance and Capital We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities, municipal securities and corporate bonds. Although we have seen an improvement in the overall market value of our investment portfolio in 2011, the market value of investments in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile over the last few years, largely due to disruptions in the capital markets. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the servicer of the securities, or the mortgages underlying the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. Furthermore, problems at the federal and state government levels may trickle down to municipalities and adversely impact our investment in municipal bonds. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate investments and other assets for impairment. We may be required to record impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment against earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the charges occur. For a more detailed discussion of investments the Company holds, including other than temporary impairment recognized during 2010, please see Note 2. Investments, of the consolidated financial statements, filed in this Form 10-K. 20 Table of Contents Our Business Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk and Changes in Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Our Performance and Financial Condition Our earnings and cash flows are highly dependent upon net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Our net interest income (including net interest spread and margin) and overall earnings are impacted by changes in interest rates and monetary policy. Changes in interest rates and monetary policy can impact the demand for new loans, the credit profile of our borrowers, the yields earned on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Management employs the use of an Asset and Liability Management software that is used to measure the Company’s exposure to future changes in interest rates. This model measures the expected cash flows and re-pricing of each financial asset/liability separately in measuring the Company’s interest rate sensitivity. Based on the results of this model, Management believes the Company’s balance sheet is slightly “liability sensitive.” This means that until such time as a substantial portion of the Company’s variable rate loan portfolio returns to rates above their floor levels, the Company would expect (all other things being equal) to experience a contraction in its net interest income if rates rise and conversely to experience expansion in net interest income, if rates fall. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates (such as a sudden and substantial increase in Prime and Overnight Fed Funds rates) as well as increasing competition may require the Bank to increase rates on deposits at a faster pace than the increase in the rate it earns on interest-earning assets. The impact of any sudden and substantial move in interest rates and/or increased competition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as the Bank’s net interest income (including the net interest spread and margin) may be negatively impacted. Additionally, a sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to prepay existing higher-rate, fixed-rate loans by refinancing to lower interest rates loan. Under those circumstances, we may not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on the prepaid loans. Failure to Successfully Execute Our Strategy May Adversely Affect Our Performance Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to execute our corporate growth strategy. Continued growth, however, may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to attain our long-term financial performance goals include those stated elsewhere in this section, as well as: inability to control non-interest expense, including, but not limited to, rising employee compensation costs, regulatory compliance, healthcare cost, limitations imposed on us in the Consent Order and/or Written Agreement, inability to increase non-interest income and continuing ability to expand, through de novo branching or identifying acquisition targets at attractive valuation levels. We Face Strong Competition from Financial Service and Other Companies That Offer Banking Service Which May Adversely Impact Our Business The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition in attracting and retaining core business relationships. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services business may reduce our market share, decrease loan demand, cause the prices we charge for our services to fall, result in a decline in the rates we charge on loans and/or cause higher rates to be paid on deposits. Therefore, our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature and level of competition. Additionally, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. 21 Table of Contents The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them without offering very high compensation. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Because of Our Participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (‘‘TARP’’), We Are Subject to Several Restrictions, Including Restrictions on Compensation Paid to Our Executives Certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance apply to us for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds an equity position in us. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include, among other things, (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required claw back of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes, executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. Pursuant to the ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus recovery package, further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation, have been imposed on our senior executive officers and most highly compensated employees. Such restrictions and any future restrictions on executive compensation, which may be adopted, could adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified senior executive officers. Our Internal Operations Are Subject to a Number of Risks We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. · Information Systems We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. · Technological Advances The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. · Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. For example, the Central Coast of California is subject to earthquakes and fires. Operations in our market could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. While we have not experienced such an occurrence to date, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. · Reliance on Third Party Service Providers for Key Systems The Company uses a third party software service provider to perform all of its transaction data processing. The Company also outsources other customer service applications, such as on-line banking, ACH and wire transfers, to third party vendors. If these service providers were to experience technical difficulties or incur any extended outages in services, it could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers. Further, if the Company was required to switch service providers due to deterioration in service quality or other factors, there is no guarantee that it could obtain comparable services for a comparable price. We are a Community Bank and our Ability to Maintain our Reputation is Critical to the Success of our Business and the Failure to Do So May Materially Adversely Affect our Performance We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. We Are Subject to Government Regulation That May Limit or Restrict Our Activities Which May Adversely Impact Our Operations The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or repeal of existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. We anticipate that continued compliance with various regulatory provisions will impact future operating expenses. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects economic conditions which may impact the Bank. New Legislative and Regulatory Proposals May Affect Our Operations and Growth Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks and financial institutions and federal insurance premiums paid by banks and financial institutions and companies that control such institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and the impact such changes might have on us or our subsidiaries are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting treatment applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies, the IRS and other appropriate authorities. The likelihood and impact of any additional future changes in law or regulation and the impact such changes might have on us or our subsidiaries are impossible to determine at this time. 23 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Our Stock Our Participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) May Pose Certain Risks to Holders of Our Common Stock Under the terms of the CPP, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury $21.0 million in preferred stock and a warrant to purchase approximately $3.2 million of the Company’s common stock. Although the Company believes that its participation in the CPP is in the best interests of our shareholders in that it enhances Company and Bank capital and provides additional funds for future growth, it may pose certain risks to the holders of our common stock such as the following: · Under the terms outlined by the U.S. Treasury for participants in the CPP, the Company issued a warrant to the U.S Treasury to purchase shares of its common stock. The issuance of this warrant may be dilutive to current common stockholders in that it reduces earnings per common share. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant is exercised. The U.S. Treasury has the right to purchase 611,650 shares of our common stock at a price of $5.15 per share, which would result in an approximate 2.4% ownership interest. · Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction and therefore has the ability to become a shareholder of the Company and possess voting power. · The preferred equity issued to the U.S. Treasury is non-voting; however, the terms of the CPP stipulate that the U.S. Treasury may vote its senior equity in matters deemed by the U.S. Treasury to have an impact on its holdings. · The Purchase Agreement between the Company and the U.S Treasury provides that before the earlier of (1) March 20, 2012 and (2) the date on which all of the shares of the preferred stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to third parties, we may not, without consent of the U.S. Treasury, (a) increase the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock above $0.08 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the preferred stock. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the preferred stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury, may have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. · Although the Company does not foresee any material changes to the terms associated with its participation in the CPP, the U.S. Government, as a sovereign body, may at any time change the terms of our participation in the CPP and or significantly influence Company policy. For more information about the Company’s participation in the CPP, see Note 21. Preferred Stock, of the consolidated financial statements, filed in this Form 10-K. Our Outstanding Preferred Stock Impacts Net Income Available to Our Common Stockholders and Earnings per Common Share and May be Dilutive to Common Stockholders Accrued dividends and the accretion on our outstanding preferred stock reduce net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, our Series C Preferred Stock may be dilutive to common stockholders to the extent the Company is profitable and must consider the dilutive nature of these securities in its calculation of earnings per common share. Also, the Company’s preferred stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding-down. Our Stock Trades Less Frequently Than Others Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial service companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. 24 Table of Contents Our Stock Price is Affected by a Variety of Factors Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors discussed in this section, including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and perceptions in the marketplace regarding our company and/or its competitors and the industry in which we operate. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent shareholders from selling their common stock at or above the price they paid. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. Any Future Issuance of Preferred or Common Stock Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common Stock We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We frequently evaluate opportunities to access the capital markets, taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations. In March of 2010, the Company raised gross proceeds of approximately $60.0 million though a private placement, as more fully disclosed in Note 21. Preferred Stock, of the consolidated financial statements, filed in this Form 10-K. Any future issuances of equity may result in additional common shares outstanding and/or reduce the amount of income available to common shareholders. In addition, we face significant regulatory and other governmental risk as a financial institution and as a participant in the CPP and it is possible that capital requirements and directives may, in the future, require us to change the amount or composition of our current capital including common equity. As a result we may determine we need, or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital. There may also be market perceptions regarding the capital we raised in 2010 or the need to raise additional capital, which may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Holders of Our Junior Subordinated Debentures Have Rights That Are Senior to Those of Our Common Shareholders We have supported our continued growth through two issuances of trust preferred securities from two separate special purpose trusts, one of which was dissolved in 2010. At December 31, 2011, we had $8.0 million of trust preferred securities outstanding. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these special purpose trusts are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years during which time no cash dividends may be paid on our common stock. Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit Our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, As Well As Certain Banking Laws, May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may hinder a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 