D. Risk Factors Our exploration programs may not result in a commercial mining operation. Mineral exploration involves significant risk because few properties that are explored contain bodies of ore that would be commercially economic to develop into producing mines. Our mineral properties are without a known body of commercial ore and our proposed programs are an exploratory search for ore. We cannot provide any assurance that our current exploration programs will result in any commercial mining operation. If the exploration programs do not result in the discovery of commercial ore, we will be required to acquire additional properties and write-off all of our investments in our existing properties. We may not have sufficient funds to complete further exploration programs. We have limited financial resources (working capital of approximately $40.344 million at December 31, 2005), do not generate operating revenue, and must finance our exploration activity by other means, including financing through joint ventures, debt financing or equity financing. We cannot provide any assurance that additional funding will be available for further exploration of our projects or to fulfil our anticipated obligations under our existing property agreements. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we will have to delay or cancel further exploration of our properties, and we could lose all of our interest in our properties. We do not have Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves. We have not established the presence of any Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves at any of our mineral properties. We cannot provide any assurance that future feasibility studies will establish Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves at our properties. The failure to establish Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves could restrict our ability to successfully implement our strategies for long-term growth. We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses during each of the following periods and expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future: • $5.870 million for the year ended December 31, 2005; • $1.518 million for the year ended December 31, 2004; • $3.938 million for the year ended December 31, 2003; - 4 - Table of Contents • $2.198 million for the year ended December 31, 2002; and • $3.377 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $43.524 million. We expect to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as one or more of our properties enter into commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund our continuing operations. If our exploration programs successfully locate an economic ore body, we will be subject to additional risks associated with mining including those set out in this Item 3.D – “Risk Factors” under the heading “We have no revenue from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind.” Factors beyond our control may determine whether any mineral deposits we discover are sufficiently economic to be developed into a mine. The determination of whether our mineral deposits are economic is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the metallurgy of the mineralization forming the mineral deposit; • market fluctuations for precious metals; • the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment; and • government regulations governing prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. We have no revenue from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. We are a mineral exploration company and have no revenues from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. Our properties are in the exploration stage, and we have not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves on any of our properties. If our exploration programs successfully locate an economic ore body, we will be subject to additional risks associated with mining: • We will require additional funds to place the ore body into commercial production. Substantial expenditures will be required to: • establish ore reserves through drilling; • develop metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore; and • construct the mining and processing facilities at any site chosen for mining. The sources of external financing that we may use for these purposes include public or private offerings of debt, convertible notes and equity. In addition, we may enter into one or more strategic alliances and may utilize one or a combination of all these alternatives. We cannot provide any assurance that the financing alternative chosen by us will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional financing is not available, we may have to postpone the development of, or sell, the property. • The majority of our property interests are not located in developed areas and as a result may not be served by appropriate • road access; • water and power supply; and • other support infrastructure. - 5 - Table of Contents These items are often needed for development of a commercial mine. If we cannot procure or develop roads, water, power and other infrastructure at a reasonable cost, it may not be economic to develop properties, where our exploration has otherwise been successful, into a commercial mining operation. • In making determinations about whether to proceed to the next stage of development, we must rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineral reserves and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. These estimates are imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot provide any assurance that: • these estimates will be accurate; • resource or other mineralization figures will be accurate; or • this mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in mineral reserve estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of the placing of a property into production and a property’s return on capital. Our resource estimates have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for silver, gold, tin, zinc, lead and copper may render portions of our mineralization uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot provide any assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. • Mining operations often encounter unpredictable risks and hazards that add expense or cause delay. These include: • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • metallurgical and other processing problems; • metal losses; • environmental hazards; • power outages; • labour disruptions; • industrial accidents; • periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions; • flooding, explosions, fire, rockbursts, cave-ins, landslides, and; • inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labour. • We may become subject to liabilities in connection with: • pollution; • cave-ins; or - 6 - Table of Contents • hazards against which we cannot insure against or which we may elect not to insure. The payment of these liabilities could require the use of financial resources that would otherwise be spent on mining operations. • Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to national and local laws and regulations governing: • prospecting, development, mining and production; • exports and taxes; • labour standards, occupational health and mine safety; • waste disposal, toxic substances, land use and environmental protection. In order to comply, we may be required to make capital and operating expenditures or to close an operation until a particular problem is remedied. In addition, if our activities violate any such laws and regulations, we may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage, and may be fined if convicted of an offence under such legislation. • Our profitability and long-term viability will depend, in large part, on the market price of silver, gold, tin, zinc, lead and copper. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: • global or regional consumption patterns; • supply of, and demand for, silver, gold, tin, zinc, lead and copper; • speculative activities; • expectations for inflation; and • political and economic conditions. We cannot predict the effect of these factors on metals prices. • In order to bring our mineral properties into production we will experience significant growth in our operations. We expect this growth to create new positions and responsibilities for management personnel and increase demands on our operating and financial systems. There can be no assurance that we will successfully meet these demands and effectively attract and retain additional qualified personnel to manage our anticipated growth. The failure to attract such qualified personnel to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant governmental regulations. Our exploration activities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including: • environmental protection; • management and use of toxic substances and explosives; • management of natural resources; • exploration of mineral properties; • exports; - 7 - Table of Contents • price controls; • taxation; • labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety; and • historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions, any of which could result in significant expenditures. We may also be required to compensate private parties suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of our activities and delays in the exploration of our properties. Our properties may be subject to uncertain title. We own, lease or have under option, unpatented and patented mining claims, mineral claims or concessions which constitute our property holdings. The ownership and validity, or title, of unpatented mining claims and concessions are often uncertain and may be contested. We have not conducted surveys of all of the claims in which we hold direct or indirect interests. A successful claim contesting our title to a property will cause us to lose our rights to explore and, if warranted, develop that property. This could result in our not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. Land reclamation requirements for our exploration properties may be burdensome. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: • control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; and • reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our mineral exploration, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration programs. Political or economic instability or unexpected regulatory change in the countries where our properties are located could adversely affect our business. Certain of our properties are located in countries, provinces and states more likely to be subject to political and economic instability, or unexpected legislative change, than is usually the case in certain other countries, provinces and states. Our mineral exploration activities could be adversely affected by: • political instability and violence; • war and civil disturbance; • expropriation or nationalization; • changing fiscal regimes; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • high rates of inflation; - 8 - Table of Contents • underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; and • unenforceability of contractual rights; any of which may adversely affect our business in that country. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We maintain our bank accounts mainly in Canadian and U.S. dollars. Any appreciation in the currencies of Argentina, Australia, Chile, Mexico or other countries where we carryout exploration activities against the Canadian or U.S. dollar will increase our costs of carrying out operations in such countries. In addition, any decrease in the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar will result in a loss on our books to the extent we hold funds in U.S. dollars. We face industry competition in the acquisition of exploration properties and the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with other exploration companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us or are further in their development, for the acquisition of mineral claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs and supplies. If we require and are unsuccessful in acquiring additional mineral properties or personnel, we will not be able to grow at the rate we desire or at all. Some of our directors and officers have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some our directors and officers are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies such as, at present, Mr. Quartermain who serves as a director and officer of Radiant Resources Inc. and as a director of Canplats Resources Corporation, IAMGold Corporation, Vista Gold Corporation, and Minco Silver Corporation. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. As a result of these conflicts of interest, we may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material, adverse effect on our financial position. Enforcement of judgments or bringing actions outside the United States against us and our directors and officers may be difficult. We are organized under the law of and headquartered in British Columbia, Canada, and none of our directors and officers are citizens or residents of the United States, other than our Vice President, Project Development. In addition, a substantial part of our assets are located outside the United States and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor to (a) enforce in courts outside the United States judgments against us and our directors and officers obtained in United States’ courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States’ federal securities laws or (b) bring in courts outside the United States an original action against us and our directors and officers to enforce liabilities based upon such United States’ securities laws. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are dependent on the services of key executives including our President and Chief Executive Officer and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on advancing our corporate objectives as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for our activities may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. - 9 - Table of Contents Under U.S. federal tax rules, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”), which may result in special and generally unfavorable U.S. federal tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders. As a non-U.S. corporation, we may be a PFIC depending on the percentage of our gross income which is “passive”, within the meaning of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the percentage of our assets that produce or are held to produce passive income. We were a PFIC in our 2005 taxable year, and we may be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period in our common stock, such U.S. shareholder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability on the sale of common shares or on the receipt of dividends. See Item 10.E – “Taxation”. The PFIC rules are complex and may be unfamiliar to U.S. shareholders. Accordingly, U.S. shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the application of the PFIC rules to their investment in our common shares. 