Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company operates in a changing environment that involves numerous known risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect its operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected and in the future could affect the Company’s operations. Additional risks that the Company does not yet know of or that it currently thinks are immaterial may also affect business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. The Company may not be able to respond to changing fashion and consumer demands in a timely manner. The footwear, apparel and accessory industries are subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends. The Company believes that its success depends in large part upon its ability to identify and interpret fashion trends and to anticipate and respond to such trends in a timely manner. The Company has generally been successful in this regard 16 but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to meet changing consumer demands or to develop successful styles in the future. If the Company misjudges the market for a particular product or product line, it may result in an increased inventory of unsold and outdated finished goods, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any failure by the Company to identify or respond to changing demands and trends could, in the long term, adversely affect consumer acceptance of the Company’s brand names, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The Company intends to market additional lines of footwear, apparel and fashion accessories in the future. As is typical with new products, demand and market acceptance for any new products introduced by the Company will be subject to uncertainty. Achieving market acceptance for each of these products may require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create customer demand. There can be no assurance that the Company’s marketing effort will successfully generate sales or that the Company will have the funds necessary to undertake such an effort. The Company’s sales are influenced by general economic cycles. Footwear, apparel and accessories are cyclical industries dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Our customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, increases in energy costs or interest rates, acts of nature or political events that diminish consumer spending and confidence in any of the regions in which we compete, could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The footwear, apparel and accessory industries are highly competitive. Any increased competition could result in reduced sales or margins. Competition in the footwear, apparel and accessory industries is intense. The Company’s products compete with other branded products within their product categories as well as with private label products sold by retailers, including some of the Company’s customers. In varying degrees, depending on the product category involved, the Company competes on the basis of style, price, quality, comfort and brand prestige and recognition, among other considerations. The Company also competes with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of footwear, apparel and accessories for the limited shelf-space available for the display of such product to the consumer. Moreover, the general availability of contract manufacturing capacity allows ease of access by new market entrants. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger, have achieved greater recognition for their brand names, have captured greater market share and/or have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than the Company. The loss of any of the Company’s largest customers could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. Although currently no customer comprises more than ten percent of the Company’s customer base, should one of its larger customers be negatively impacted, it could adversely affect the Company’s business. In recent years the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers may have financial problems or consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could further increase the concentration of the Company’s customers. The loss of any of the Company’s largest customers, or the bankruptcy or material financial difficulty of any customer, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company does not have long-term contracts with any of its customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis. As a result, customers can terminate their relationships with the Company at any time or under certain circumstances cancel or delay orders which could reduce our sales and adversely affect its business condition. The success of the Company’s business depends on its ability to attract and retain key employees. The Company is heavily dependent on its current executive officers and management. The loss of any of its executive officers or management, including but not limited to, Kenneth D. Cole, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of new products, harm our ability to sell products, damage the image of its brands and/or prevent the Company from executing its business strategy. 17 Imposition of quotas and fluctuations in exchange rates could increase the Company’s costs and impact its ability to source goods. The Company’s business is subject to risks of doing business abroad, including, but not limited to, fluctuations in exchange rates and the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges on imports. In order to reduce the risk of exchange rate fluctuations, the Company often enters into forward exchange contracts to protect the purchase price under its agreements with its manufacturers or purchases products in United States dollars. The Company cannot fully anticipate all of its currency needs and, therefore, cannot fully protect against the effect of such fluctuations. Although the majority of the goods sold by the Company are not currently subject to quotas, countries in which the Company’s products are manufactured may, from time to time, impose new or adjust prevailing quotas or other restrictions on exported products and the United States may impose new duties, tariffs and other restrictions on imported products, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s operations and its ability to import its products at the Company’s current or increase quantity levels. Other restrictions on the importation of footwear and the Company’s other products are periodically considered by the United States Congress and no assurances can be given that tariffs or duties on the Company’s goods may not be raised. If tariffs are raised in the future, they will result in higher costs to the Company, and if import quotas are imposed or made more restrictive, the Company may not be able to source its goods at historical factories or at similar prices. The voting shares of the Company’s stock are concentrated in one majority shareholder. Currently, Kenneth D. Cole owns approximately 88% of the voting power and approximately 43% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. As a result, Mr. Cole has the ability to control (i) the election of all of the Company’s directors other than the directors who will be elected by the holders of Class A Common Stock, voting separately as a class, and (ii) the results of all other shareholder votes. Mr. Cole’s interests may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. War and acts of terrorism could affect the Company’s ability to procure, sell and deliver product. In the event of war or acts of terrorism or the escalation of existing hostilities, or if any are threatened, the Company’s ability to procure its products from its manufacturers for sale to its customers may be negatively affected. The Company imports a substantial portion of its products from other countries. If it becomes difficult or impossible to import the Company’s products into the countries in which it sell its products, the Company’s sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. Additionally, war, military responses to future international conflicts, and possible future terrorist attacks may lead to a downturn in the U.S. and/or international economies, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing outside the United States. Substantially all of the Company’s apparel products are produced by independent manufacturers. The Company faces the risk that these third-party manufacturers with whom it contracts to produce its products may not produce and deliver its products on a timely basis, or at all. The Company cannot be certain that it will not experience operational difficulties with its manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to the Company’s expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm its business. In addition, the Company’s foreign manufacturers may be adversely effected by additional factors such as political instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located, imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports, imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies and restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries. The capacity of the Company’s manufacturers to manufacture its products also is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. The Company’s manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which 18 could result in delays in deliveries of its products by its manufacturers or in increased costs to the Company. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to manufacture or ship its products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair the Company’s ability to ship orders of its products in a cost-efficient, timely manner and could cause the Company to miss the delivery requirements of its customers. As a result, the Company could experience cancellations of orders, refusals to accept deliveries or reductions in its prices and margins, any of which could harm the Company’s financial performance and results of operations. The Company relies on licensees for revenues, supply of products and compliance with Company standards. The Company licenses its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of various products and intends to expand its licensing programs. While the Company enters into comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, its licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under the Company’s brand names that do not meet its quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet the Company’s supplier code of conduct. These activities could harm the Company’s brand equity, its reputation and its business. In addition, the Company’s results could be affected by the results of its licensees or distributors, or the transition of any of its licensing categories in-house. The financial difficulties of any of its partners or their failure to produce and deliver acceptable product could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business in the future. In the event of a business failure of any such partner or of the breakdown of the Company’s relationship with any domestic or foreign partner, there is no guarantee that the Company could replace such business. The Company has assumed greater control over its men’s sportswear collection. The Company terminated its license agreement with Paul Davril, Inc. for men’s sportswear in 2007 and created a wholesale apparel division to design, source and market these products commencing in Spring 2008. In addition to all of the risk factors listed in this section, the wholesale apparel division is subject to all the associated risks of a new business, including but not limited to, startup development costs incurred in advance of sales commencing, inability to attract and retain employees with sufficient expertise to manage these new classifications and inexperience of existing management with direct control of the business. New product classifications may require different methods of operations than those used in the past and may involve different customers or competitors, possible difficulties, delays or costs in integrating these lines into the business, operations, personnel or systems of the Company in ways not currently anticipated by Company management, and projected sales, margins and profits may not be realized. Failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels could have an adverse financial effect on the Company’s business. The Company maintains an inventory of selected products that it anticipates will be in high demand. The Company may be unable to sell the products it ordered in advance from manufacturers or that it has in its inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm the Company’s operating results and impair the image of the Company’s brands. Conversely, if the Company underestimates consumer demand for its products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, the Company may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. The Company relies on third parties for distribution and warehousing. The Company relies on warehousing and distribution facilities operated by third parties in California and New Jersey. Any damage at either of these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or manmade cause, including operational or financial hardship of the provider or its capacity, could impair a portion of the Company’s inventory or its ability to use its warehousing and distribution facilities. 19 Outcomes of litigation or changes in regulatory control could impact the Company’s financial condition. From time to time, the Company may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that the Company devote substantial resources to defend itself. Further, changes in government regulations both in the United States and in the countries in which the Company operates could have adverse affects on its business and subject it to additional regulatory actions. The loss or infringement of the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The Company believes that its trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to its success and competitive position. Accordingly, the Company devotes substantial resources to the establishment and protection of its trademarks on a worldwide basis. There can be no assurances that such actions taken to establish and protect the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of the Company’s products as violative of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, there can be no assurances that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights or that the Company will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any litigation regarding our trademarks could be time consuming and costly, and the loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Implementation of management information systems may impact the Company’s financial results. During 2007, the Company implemented SAP information management software in its retail operations and considered further expansion of SAP as an entity-wide integrated system solution. The implementation of such software could be delayed and the Company may encounter computer and operational complications in connection with such implementation that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Difficulties migrating existing systems to the new software could impact its ability to design, produce and ship its products on a timely basis. Seasonality of the Company’s business and the timing of store openings and closings could result in fluctuations in its financial performance. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, fourth quarter’s sales are typically higher due to holiday business. Therefore, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future will continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new store openings and their respective pre-opening costs, as well as store closings and related costs. Adverse publicity could negatively affect public perception of the brand. The Company’s results could be substantially affected by adverse publicity resulting from its products or its advertising. Expiration of leases could result in fluctuations in the Company’s financial performance. As retail store leases expire, the Company may not be able to renew them on acceptable terms or secure suitable replacement locations. While the Company continues to explore new markets and is always evaluating new potential, some stores may close, and this may have an adverse impact on the financial operations of the Company’s Consumer Direct division. 20 The Company’s expectations of growth anticipate new store openings which are subject to many factors beyond its control. Future growth in sales and profits in the Company’s Consumer Direct division will depend to some extent on its ability to increase the number of stores. The lease negotiation and development timeframes vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays. The number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to net income for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited, to: the identification and availability of suitable locations and leases; the availability of suitable financing to the Company and its landlords; the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to the Company from its landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; the Company’s ability and its landlords’ ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate its stores on a timely basis; the Company’s ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials; the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; adverse weather during the construction period; and the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition. The effects of recent hurricanes and other natural disasters have increased insurance costs for which the Company expects to take on higher deductibles if losses occur. The Company has operations in flood, hurricane and earthquake zones. As such, the Company has insured itself against losses from natural disasters. The cost of such insurance has risen significantly as a result of the effects of recent disasters throughout the United States. To offset such costs, the Company has taken on larger deductibles which, if aggregated through multiple disaster locations, could have a material effect on our results of operations. The Company intends to outsource its Internet business to a third-party direct-to-customer e-commerce service provider. The Company signed an agreement in 2007 to outsource its Internet business to a third-party that provides direct-to-customer e-commerce services, which the Company believes will increase the efficiency of the Company’s Internet business. Shortly after the agreement was signed, but before the scheduled launch date, the provider was acquired, resulting in a launch delay. The new launch date is scheduled to occur in 2008. Although the Company will be working closely with the third-party fulfillment center in transitioning the business from its current in-house process, the Company may incur delays in order-taking and fulfillment, as a result of the transition. This could impair the Company’s ability to adequately meet the needs of its customers and negatively impact the Company’s operating results. Negative conditions in global credit markets may impair the Company’s marketable securities portfolio. The Company has investments in auction-rate securities which reset every 28 days, that, are “triple A” rated debt obligations, and substantially all have insurers. The recent conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If there is insufficient demand for the securities at the time of auction, the auction may not be completed and the interest rates may not be reset to predetermined interest rates. When auctions for these securities fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auctions of these investments is successful or they are redeemed or mature. If a decline in market value continues that is deemed other-than-temporary resulting in a writedown, the result could have a material effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 