item. D. Risk Factors Pirquitas Project is our only mineral property under development and we may not be able to successfully establish mining operations. The Pirquitas Project is our only mineral property currently under development. The development of our Pirquitas Project and the future development of any other properties found to be economically feasible and approved by the board will require the construction and operation of mines, processing plants and related infrastructure. As a result, we are and will be subject to all of the risks associated with establishing new mining operations including: · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; · the availability and cost of skilled labor and mining equipment; · the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; · the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental approvals and permits and the timing of the receipt of those approvals and permits; · the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities; · potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups or local groups which may delay or prevent development activities; and · potential increases in construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power materials and supplies. The costs, timing and complexities of mine construction and development for our Pirquitas Project and our other projects may be greater than we anticipate because the majority of our property interests are not located in developed areas and as a result may not be served by appropriate road access, water and power supply, and other support infrastructure, and cost estimates may increase as more detailed engineering work is completed on a project. It is common in new mining operations to experience unexpected costs, problems and delays during construction, development and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production often occur. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our activities will result in profitable mining operations at the Pirquitas Project or any of our other mineral properties. We have no revenue from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. We are a mineral exploration company and have no revenue from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. Our properties are in the exploration stage, and we have not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves on any of our properties, other than the Pirquitas Project. Mineral exploration involves significant risk because few properties that are explored contain bodies of ore that would be commercially economic to develop into producing mines. If our current exploration programs do not result in the discovery of commercial ore, we may need to write-off part or all of our investment in our existing properties and we will be required to acquire additional properties. The determination of whether any mineral deposits on our properties are economic is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: -4- Table of Contents · the metallurgy of the mineralization forming the mineral deposit; · market fluctuations for metal prices; · the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment; and · government regulations governing prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. We may not have sufficient funds to develop our mineral properties or to complete further exploration programs. We have limited financial resources (cash and cash equivalents of $229.616 million, silver bullion of $15.787 million and marketable securities of $5.817 million as of December 31, 2006), do not generate operating revenue, and must finance our exploration activity and the development of our mineral properties by other means. We intend to fund our immediate plan of operations and the development of our Pirquitas Project from our working capital. In the future, our ability to continue our exploration and development activities, if any, will depend on our ability to develop the Pirquitas Project and generate operating revenue or obtain additional external financing. The sources of external financing that we may use for these purposes include public or private offerings of equity and debt. In addition, we may enter into one or more strategic alliances or joint ventures, or may decide to sell certain property interests, and may utilize one or a combination of all of these alternatives. The financing alternative chosen by us may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional financing is not available, we may have to postpone the development of, or sell, properties. We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We recorded a profit of $16.382 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, but have incurred losses during each of the following periods: · $5.870 million for the year ended December 31, 2005; and · $1.518 million for the year ended December 31, 2004; We expect to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as the Pirquitas Project enters into commercial production and generates sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. The development of the Pirquitas Project and any other mineral property will require the commitment of substantial financial resources. The amount and timing of expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including the progress of ongoing exploration and development, the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture agreements with strategic partners, and our acquisition of additional property interests, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve profitability. We follow Canadian disclosure practices concerning our mineral reserves and resources which allow for more disclosure than is permitted for U.S. reporting companies. Our resource estimates are not directly comparable to those made in filings subject to SEC reporting and disclosure requirements, as we generally report resources in accordance with Canadian practices. These practices are different from the practices used to report resource estimates in reports and other materials filed with the SEC in that the Canadian practice is to report measured, indicated and inferred resources. In the United States, mineralization may not be classified as a ‘‘reserve’’ unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated resources will ever be converted into reserves. Further, ‘‘inferred resources’’ have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. Disclosure of ‘‘contained ounces’’ is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC only permits issuers to report ‘‘resources’’ as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information concerning descriptions of mineralization and resources contained in this prospectus, or in the documents incorporated herein by reference, may not be comparable to information made public by U.S. companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. -5- Table of Contents Our reserve and resource estimates are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. In making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we must rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineral reserves and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. These estimates are imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that: · reserve, resource or other mineralization estimates will be accurate; or · mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in mineral reserve estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and a property’s return on capital. Our reserve and resource estimates have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for silver, gold, tin and zinc may render portions of our mineralization uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineral reserves. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot assure you that mineral recovery rates achieved in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Mining is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control. The development and operation of a mine or mine property is inherently dangerous and involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. These risks include: · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · metallurgical and other processing problems; · metal losses; · environmental hazards; · power outages; · labor disruptions; · industrial accidents; -6- Table of Contents · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions; · flooding, explosions, fire, rockbursts, cave-ins and landslides; and · the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums, or at all. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution and other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, is not generally available to companies within the mining industry. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by our insurance policies. Changes in the market price of silver and other metals, which in the past have fluctuated widely, will affect our operations. Our profitability and long-term viability will depend, in large part, on the market price of silver, gold, tin, zinc, lead and copper. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: · global or regional consumption patterns; · the supply of, and demand for, these metals; · speculative activities; · the availability and costs of metal substitutes; · expectations for inflation; and · political and economic conditions, including interest rates and currency values. We cannot predict the effect of these factors on metal prices. A decrease in the market price of silver and other metals would affect the profitability of the Pirquitas Project and could affect our ability to finance the exploration and development of any of our other mineral properties. The market price of silver and other metals may not remain at current levels. In particular, an increase in worldwide supply, and consequent downward pressure on prices, may result over the longer term from increased silver production from mines developed or expanded as a result of current metal price levels. We are subject to significant governmental regulations. Our exploration activities are, and the development of the Pirquitas Project is, subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including: · environmental protection; · the management and use of toxic substances and explosives; · the management of natural resources; · the exploration of mineral properties; · exports; · price controls; · taxation and mining royalties; -7- Table of Contents · labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety; and · historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners, any of which could result in significant expenditures. We may also be required to compensate private parties suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of our activities and delays in the exploration and development of our properties. We require further permits in order to conduct our current and anticipated future operations, and delays or a failure to obtain such permits, or a failure to comply with the terms of any such permits that we have obtained, would adversely affect our business. Our current and anticipated future operations, including further exploration, development activities and commencement of production on our mineral properties, require permits from various governmental authorities. We cannot assure you that all permits that we require for our operations, including any construction of mining facilities or conduct of mining, will be obtainable or renewable on reasonable terms, or at all. Delays or a failure to obtain such required permits, or the expiry, revocation or failure by us to comply with the terms of any such permits that we have obtained, would adversely affect our business. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs and restrict our operations. All of our exploration and potential development and production activities in Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Mexico, Peru and the United States are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under various environmental laws. To the extent that we conduct exploration activities or undertake new mining activities in other countries, we will also be subject to environmental laws and regulations in those jurisdictions. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Environmental legislation in many countries is evolving and the trend has been towards stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and increasing responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays on our behalf and may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. Future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. Land reclamation requirements for our exploration properties may be burdensome. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: · control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; and · reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. -8- Table of Contents In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our exploration and potential development activities, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. Certain of our projects have been subject to historic mining operations and certain of the properties that were historically mined by us are subject to remediation obligations. We have set up a provision for our reclamation bonds but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. Our properties may be subject to uncertain title. We own, lease or have under option, unpatented and patented mining claims, mineral claims or concessions which constitute our property holdings. The ownership and validity, or title, of unpatented mining claims and concessions are often uncertain and may be contested. We also may not have, or may not be able to obtain, all necessary surface rights to develop a property. We have not conducted surveys of all of the claims in which we hold direct or indirect interests. A successful claim contesting our title to a property will cause us to lose our rights to explore and, if warranted, develop that property. This could result in our not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. Political or economic instability or unexpected regulatory change in the countries where our properties are located could adversely affect our business. Certain of our properties are located in countries, provinces and states more likely to be subject to political and economic instability, or unexpected legislative change, than is usually the case in certain other countries, provinces and states. Our mineral exploration or potential development activities could be adversely affected by: · political instability and violence; · war and civil disturbance; · labor unrest; · expropriation or nationalization; · changing fiscal regimes and uncertain regulatory environments; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · high rates of inflation; · changes to royalty and tax regimes; · underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; and · the unenforceability of contractual rights and judgments. There can be no assurance that we will successfully acquire additional commercially mineable mineral rights. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any anticipated level of recovery of ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of reserves, resources, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. -9- Table of Contents Material changes in ore reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of any project. Our future growth and productivity will depend, in part, on our ability to identify and acquire additional commercially mineable mineral rights, and on the costs and results of continued exploration and potential development programs. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature and is frequently non-productive. Substantial expenditures are required to: · establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques; · determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; and · construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. In addition, if we discover ore, it would take several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that we will successfully acquire additional commercially mineable (or viable) mineral rights. We may be adversely affected by future fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We maintain our bank accounts primarily in Canadian and U.S. dollars. We expect that our future revenue, if any, will be in U.S. dollars while certain of our costs will be incurred in other currencies. In particular, any appreciation in the currencies of Argentina, Australia, Chile, Mexico or other countries where we carry out exploration or development activities against the Canadian or U.S. dollar will increase our costs of carrying on operations in such countries. With the development of our Pirquitas Project, our costs denominated in the currency of Argentina have increased over past levels and we have greater exposure to Argentinean currency fluctuations. In addition, any decrease in the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar will result in a loss on our books to the extent we hold funds in U.S. dollars. We face industry competition in the acquisition of exploration properties and the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with other exploration companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us or are further advanced in their development, for the acquisition of mineral claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs and supplies. In particular, we face competition for qualified personnel and equipment for our Pirquitas Project, which may increase our estimated costs of developing the project or result in delays. We expect that a significant number of expatriate employees will be required in the early stages of the development of the Pirquitas Project to hire and train the local workforce. If we require and are unsuccessful in acquiring additional mineral properties or qualified personnel, we will not be able to grow at the rate we desire or at all. Some of our directors and officers have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some our directors and officers are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies such as, at present, our President, Robert Quartermain, who serves as a director and officer of Radiant Resources Inc. and as a director of Canplats Resources Corporation, Vista Gold Corporation, and Minco Silver Corporation (with which we have a strategic alliance to jointly pursue silver opportunities in China). In addition, our Senior Vice President, Joseph J. Ovsenek, is a director of Esperanza Silver Corporation (with which we have an agreement for the exploration of silver projects in Peru). These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. As a result of these conflicts of interest, we may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. -10- Table of Contents We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to grow our business. We are dependent on the services of key executives, including Mr. Quartermain, and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on advancing our corporate objectives as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for the development of the Pirquitas Project and our other activities may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Enforcement of judgments or bringing actions outside the United States against us and our directors and officers may be difficult. We are organized under the laws of, and headquartered in, British Columbia, Canada, and none of our directors and officers are citizens or residents of the United States, other than our Vice President, Project Development. In addition, a substantial part of our assets are located outside the United States and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor to (i) enforce in courts outside the United States judgments against us and our directors and officers obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or (ii) bring in courts outside the United States an original action against us and our directors and officers to enforce liabilities based upon such U.S. securities laws. See ‘‘Enforceability of Civil Liabilities’’. Under U.S. federal tax rules, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”), which may result in special and generally unfavorable U.S. federal tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders. As a non-U.S. corporation, we may be a PFIC depending on the percentage of our gross income which is “passive”, within the meaning of the Code, or the percentage of our assets that produce or are held to produce passive income. We were a PFIC in our 2006 taxable year, and we may be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period in our common stock, such U.S. shareholder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability on the sale of common shares or on the receipt of dividends. See Item 10.E - “Taxation - Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”. The PFIC rules are complex and may be unfamiliar to U.S. shareholders. Accordingly, U.S. shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the application of the PFIC rules to their investment in our common shares. -11- Table of Contents Item 