D. Risk Factors The production and cost estimates for the Pirquitas Mine may vary and/or not be achieved. We have prepared estimates of future production, operating costs and capital costs for the Pirquitas Mine. We cannot give any assurance that such production or cost estimates will be achieved. Actual production and costs may vary from the estimates depending on a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution, and metallurgical and other characteristics; short-term operating factors such as the need for sequential development of ore bodies and the processing of new or different ore grades from those planned; mine failures, slope failures or equipment failures; industrial accidents; natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods, droughts, rock slides and earthquakes; encountering unusual or unexpected geological conditions; changes in power costs and potential power shortages; exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations; shortages of principal supplies needed for operations, including explosives, fuels, chemical reagents, water, equipment parts and lubricants; labor shortages or strikes; high rates of inflation; civil disobedience and protests; and restrictions (including change to the taxation regime) or regulations (including import restriction for equipment and material required for operations at the mine) imposed by governmental or regulatory authorities or other changes in the regulatory environments. Failure to achieve production or cost estimates or material increases in costs could have a material adverse impact on our future cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition. - 3 - The Pirquitas Mine is currently our only mineral property in production and we may be exposed to future development risk The Pirquitas Mine is currently our only mineral property in production. The future development of any other properties found to be economically feasible and approved by our Board of Directors will require the construction and operation of mines, processing plants and related infrastructure. As a result, we are and will continue to be subject to all of the risks associated with establishing new mining operations including: the availability and cost of skilled labor and mining equipment; the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; securing long-term access agreements required to develop and operate a mine; the need to obtain and retain necessary environmental and other governmental approvals and permits and the timing of the receipt of those approvals and permits; potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups or local groups which may delay or prevent development activities; potential increases in cost structures due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials and supplies; and the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction and expansion of mining and processing facilities. The costs, timing and complexities of operating the Pirquitas Mine and constructing and developing our other projects may be greater than we anticipate because the majority of our property interests are not located in developed areas, and, as a result, our property interests may not be served by appropriate road access, water and power supply and other support infrastructure. Cost estimates may increase as more detailed engineering work is completed on a project. It is common in new mining operations to experience unexpected costs, problems and delays during construction, development and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the early stages of mineral production often occur. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that our activities will result in profitable mining operations at any of our mineral properties. We have limited revenue from operations. We transitioned recently from exploration and development to production, generating initial revenue from operations in 2010. Other than the Pirquitas Mine, which achieved commercial production on December 1, 2009, all of our properties are in the exploration or development stage. With the exception of our Pitarrilla and San Luis Projects we have not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves on any of our exploration stage properties. Mineral exploration involves significant risk because few properties that are explored contain bodies of ore that become commercially economic to develop into producing mines. If our current exploration programs do not result in the discovery of commercial ore, we may need to write-off part or all of our investment in our existing exploration stage properties, and we may need acquire additional properties. The determination of whether any mineral deposits on our properties are economically viable is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the metallurgy of the mineralization forming the mineral deposit; - 4 - the geological structures and formations of the deposit and host rock; market fluctuations for metal prices; the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment; and government regulations governing prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. We may not have sufficient funds to fully develop our mineral properties or to complete further exploration and development programs. The Company has a strengthened balance sheet following the sale of the Snowfield and Brucejack properties in 2010. However current operating cash flows are not sufficient to finance all our exploration programs, development of our mineral properties and corporate costs. In the future, our ability to continue our production, development and exploration activities, if any, will depend on our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows from the Pirquitas Mine and obtain additional external financing where necessary. Any unexpected costs, problems or delays at the Pirquitas Mine could severely impact our ability to generate sufficient cash flows and require greater reliance on alternative sources of financing. In addition, under the terms of the indenture governing our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028, the holders of such notes may at their option require us to repurchase the outstanding principal thereunder on March 1, 2013. If the noteholders make such request, our liquidity may be negatively impacted. The sources of external financing that we may use for these purposes include project or bank financing, or public or private offerings of equity and debt. In addition, we may enter into one or more strategic alliances or joint ventures, decide to sell certain property interests, or utilize one or a combination of all of these alternatives. The financing alternative chosen by us may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional financing is not available, we may have to postpone the development of, or sell, one or more of our principal properties. Changes in the market price of silver and other metals, which in the past have fluctuated widely, will affect our operations. Our profitability and long-term viability depends, in large part, on the market price of silver, gold, tin, zinc, lead and copper. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: global or regional consumption patterns; the supply of, and demand for, these metals; speculative activities; the availability and costs of metal substitutes; expectations for inflation; and political and economic conditions, including interest rates and currency values. We cannot predict the effect of these factors on metal prices. A decrease in the market price of silver and other metals would affect the profitability of the Pirquitas Mine and could affect our ability to finance the exploration and development of any of our other mineral properties. The market price of silver and other metals may not remain at current levels. In particular, an increase in worldwide supply, and consequent downward pressure on prices, may result over the longer term from increased silver production from mines developed or expanded as a result of current metal price levels. - 5 - We have a history of losses. Although we had income from mine operations of $51.9 million and $14.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, we still incurred underlying net losses after adjustments for non-operating items. As the Pirquitas Mine has been in commercial production since December 2009, we anticipate continuing to generate income from mine operations for the foreseeable future. We expect the Pirquitas Mine to generate sufficient cash flows to fund continuing operations, however we may continue incurring losses or generating insufficient cash flows, such that the exploration and development of our other mineral properties will require commitment of substantial financial resources that may not be available. The amount and timing of expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including the progress of ongoing exploration and development, the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, the rate of operating losses, the execution of any strategic agreements with third parties and our acquisition of additional property interests, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will ever achieve profitability. General economic conditions may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The unprecedented events in global financial markets in the past several years have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the silver and gold mining industry, have been and continue to be impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations, high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets and a lack of market confidence and liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, sovereign debt and government solvency conditions, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates and tax rates, may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Specifically: the global credit/liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and our overall liquidity; the volatility of silver and gold prices would impact our revenues, profits, losses and cash flow; continued recessionary pressures could adversely impact demand for our production, and conversely, inflationary pressures would impact our production costs; volatile energy, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates would impact our production costs; and the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets would impact the valuation of our equity and other securities. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An event of default under our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 may significantly reduce our liquidity and adversely affect our business. Under the indenture governing our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 (the “Convertible Notes”), we made various covenants to the trustees on behalf of the holders of the Convertible Notes, including to make payments of interest and principal when due and, upon undergoing a fundamental change, to offer to purchase all of the outstanding Convertible Notes. - 6 - If there is an event of default under the Convertible Notes, the principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, may be declared immediately due and payable. If such an event occurs, this would place additional strain on our cash resources, which could inhibit our ability to further our exploration and development activities. Recoverability of the investment in Pretium Following the sale of the Snowfield and Brucejack properties to Pretium, we retained a significant continuing ownership interest, currently approximately 27% as at the date of this Annual Report. We will significantly rely on the performance of Pretium, the market performance of Pretium’s common shares and the liquidity of the market for those shares, in realizing the full value. This may reduce our ability to execute our strategy and fund planned exploration and development opportunities. We follow Canadian disclosure practices concerning our mineral reserves and mineral resources which allow for more disclosure than is permitted for U.S. reporting companies. Our resource estimates are not directly comparable to those made by U.S. domestic companies subject to the SEC reporting and disclosure requirements, as we report resources in accordance with Canadian practices. These practices are different from the practices used to report resource estimates in reports and other materials filed by U.S. domestic companies with the SEC in that the Canadian practice is to report measured, indicated and inferred resources. In the United States, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated resources will ever be converted into reserves. Further, “Inferred Mineral Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. Disclosure of “contained ounces” is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC only permits issuers to report “resources” as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information concerning descriptions of mineralization and resources contained in this Annual Report, or in any document incorporated by reference herein, may not be comparable to information made public by U.S. companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. Our mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. In making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we must rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineral reserves and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. These estimates are imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot provide assurance that: reserve, resource or other mineralization estimates will be accurate; or mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in mineral reserve estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and a property’s return on capital. Our mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for silver, gold, tin, zinc, lead and copper may render portions of our mineralization uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineral reserves. - 7 - Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot provide assurance that mineral recovery rates achieved in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Mining is inherently risky and subject to conditions or events beyond our control. The development and operation of a mine or mine property is inherently dangerous and involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome, including: unusual or unexpected geological formations; metallurgical and other processing problems; metal losses; environmental hazards; power outages; community relations problems; labor disruptions; industrial accidents; periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions; flooding, explosions, fire, rockbursts, cave-ins and landslides; mechanical equipment and facility performance problems; and the availability of materials and equipment. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury or death, including to our employees, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, asset write downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums, or at all. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution and other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, is not generally available to companies within the mining industry. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by our insurance policies. We are subject to significant governmental regulations. The operation of the Pirquitas Mine, as well as our exploration and development activities, are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including: environmental protection; the management and use of toxic substances and explosives; - 8 - the management of natural resources; the exploration of mineral properties; exports; insurance restrictions; import restrictions; exchange controls; price controls; taxation and mining royalties; labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety; anti-corruption and anti-bribery statutes; and historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners, any of which could result in significant expenditures. We may also be required to compensate private parties suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause us to incur additional expense or capital expenditure restrictions or suspensions of our activities and delays in the exploration and development of our properties. The Company is subject to anti-corruption laws. The Company is subject to Canadian anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibit companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in Argentina, Peru and Mexico, and there can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such prohibited conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require further permits in order to conduct our current and anticipated future operations, and delays in obtaining or failure to obtain such permits, or a failure to comply with the terms of any such permits that we have obtained, would adversely affect our business. Our current and anticipated future operations, including continued production at the Pirquitas Mine, and further exploration, development and commencement of production on our other mineral properties, require permits from various governmental authorities. Obtaining or renewing governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process. The duration and success of efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control. We cannot provide assurance that all permits that we require for our operations, including any for construction of mining facilities or conduct of mining, will be obtainable or renewable on reasonable terms, or at all. Delays or a failure to obtain such required permits, or the expiry, revocation or failure by us to comply with the terms of any such permits that we have obtained, would adversely affect our business. - 9 - Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs and restrict our operations. The Company’s activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing environmental protection which are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. The Company is required to obtain governmental permits and in some instances provide bonding requirements under federal, state, or provincial air, water quality, and mine reclamation rules and permits. Although the Company makes provisions for reclamation costs, it cannot be assured that these provisions will be adequate to discharge its future obligations for these costs. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws may result in injunctions, damages, suspension or revocation of permits and imposition of penalties. While responsible environmental stewardship is one of the Company’s top priorities, there can be no assurance that the Company has been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits, or that the costs of complying with current and future environmental laws and permits will not materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Environmental legislation in many countries is evolving and the trend has been towards stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and increasing responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays on our behalf and may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. Future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. Environmental laws in some of the countries in which we operate require that we periodically perform environmental impact studies at our mines. At present, environmental impact studies are being performed at the Pirquitas Mine and the Pitarrilla and San Luis Project. We cannot guarantee that these studies will not reveal environmental impacts that would require us to make significant capital outlays or cause material changes or delays in our intended activities, any of which could adversely affect our business. Land reclamation requirements for our exploration properties may be burdensome. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; and reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our exploration, potential development and production activities, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. Certain of our projects have been subject to historic mining operations and certain of the properties that were historically mined by us are subject to remediation obligations. We have set up a provision for our reclamation bonds but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. - 10 - Our properties may be subject to uncertain title. We cannot provide assurance that title to our properties will not be challenged. We own, lease or have under option, unpatented and patented mining claims, mineral claims or concessions which constitute our property holdings. The ownership and validity, or title, of unpatented mining claims and concessions are often uncertain and may be contested. Also, we may not have, or may not be able to obtain or economically obtain, all necessary surface rights to develop a property. Title insurance is generally not available for mineral properties and our ability to ensure that we have obtained a secure claim to individual mining properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. We have not conducted surveys of all of the claims in which we hold direct or indirect interests. A successful claim contesting our title to a property will cause us to lose our rights to explore and, if warranted, develop that property or undertake or continue production thereon. This could result in us not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. In addition, certain of our properties are located in areas that were and are inhabited by indigenous people. If historical artifacts or archaeological sites are discovered on or near our properties, we may be prohibited or restricted from developing or mining our mineral properties or be required to relocate or preserve such findings. The sale of our concentrates will be subject to counterparty and market risks. We have entered into supply arrangements to sell some of the silver and zinc concentrates being produced at the Pirquitas Mine to integrated mining and smelting companies. There is no assurance that in the future, where necessary, we will be successful in entering into such arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not successful in entering into such arrangements, we may be forced to sell all of our concentrates, or greater volumes of them than we may from time to time intend, in the spot market, or we may not have a market for our concentrates. In addition, should any counterparty to any supply arrangement we may enter into not honour such arrangement, or should any of such counterparties become insolvent, we may incur losses for products already shipped and be forced to sell greater volumes of our concentrates than intended in the spot market or we may not have a market for our concentrates, and our future operating results may be materially adversely impacted as a result. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any agreements we may enter into to sell concentrates when such agreements expire, or that our concentrates will meet the qualitative requirements under future concentrate agreements or the requirements of buyers. Political or economic instability or unexpected regulatory change in the countries where our properties are located could adversely affect our business. The Company currently conducts operations in Argentina, and has exploration projects in Mexico, Peru, Argentina, Chile, Canada and the United States, and as such the Company is exposed to various levels of economic, political and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties vary from country to country and include, but are not limited to, royalties and tax increases or claims by governmental bodies, expropriation or nationalization, foreign exchange controls, import and export regulations, cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, changing fiscal regimes and uncertain regulatory environments, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, high rates of inflation, changes in royalty and tax regimes, including the elimination of tax exemptions, underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure, unenforceability of contractual rights and judgements and environmental permitting regulations. The occurrence of these various factors and uncertainties cannot be accurately predicted and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or profitability. - 11 - We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully acquire additional commercially mineable mineral rights. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits, and no assurance can be given that any anticipated level of recovery of ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Material changes in mineral reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of any project. Our future growth and productivity will depend, in part, on our ability to identify and acquire additional commercially mineable mineral rights, and on the costs and results of continued exploration and potential development programs. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature and is frequently non-productive. Substantial expenditures are required to: establish mineral reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques; determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; and construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. In addition, if we discover ore, it would take several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that we will successfully acquire additional commercially mineable (or viable) mineral rights. We may be adversely affected by future fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We maintain our bank accounts primarily in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and Argentine Pesos. Our revenues are all in U.S. dollars, while certain of our costs will be incurred in other currencies. In particular, any appreciation in the currencies of Argentina, Canada, Chile, Mexico or other countries where we carry out exploration or development activities against the U.S. dollar will increase our costs of carrying on operations in such countries. With the operation of the Pirquitas Mine, our costs denominated in Argentine Pesos have increased over past levels, and we therefore have greater exposure to Argentine currency fluctuations. In addition, any decrease in the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar will result in a loss on our books to the extent we hold funds in Canadian dollars. As a result, our financial performance and forecasts can be significantly impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates. High metal prices in recent years have encouraged increased mining exploration, development and construction activity, which has increased demand for, and cost of, exploration, development and construction services and equipment. The relative strength of metal prices over the past five years has encouraged increases in mining exploration, development and construction activities around the world, which has resulted in increased demand for, and cost of, exploration, development and construction services and equipment. While recent market conditions have had a moderating effect on the costs of such services and equipment, increases in such costs may continue with the resumption of an upward trend in metal prices. Increased demand for services and equipment could result in delays if services or equipment cannot be obtained in a timely manner due to inadequate availability, and may cause scheduling difficulties due to the need to coordinate the availability of services or equipment, any of which could materially increase project exploration, development and/or construction costs. - 12 - We face industry competition in the acquisition of exploration properties and the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with other exploration and producing companies, many of which are better capitalized, have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than us or are further advanced in their development or are significantly larger and have access to greater mineral reserves, for the acquisition of mineral claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. In particular, we face competition for qualified personnel for the Pirquitas Mine, which may increase our costs of operating the mine or result in delays. Expatriate employees are currently required in the early stages of the Pitarrilla Project. If we require and are unsuccessful in acquiring additional mineral properties or qualified personnel, we will not be able to grow at the rate we desire, or at all. Some of our directors and officers have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors and officers are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies. Currently, John Smith, our Chief Executive Officer serves as a director of Pretium, and, as of the date of this Annual Report, we own approximately 27% of Pretium’s outstanding common shares. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. As a result of these conflicts of interest, we may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are subject to claims and legal proceedings. We are subject to various claims and legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us. We carry liability insurance coverage and establish reserves for matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated. In addition, we may be involved in disputes with other parties in the future that may result in litigation, which may have a material adverse impact on our future cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to grow our business. We are dependent on the services of key executives and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on advancing our corporate objectives as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain suitable replacements for them or additional highly skilled employees required for the operation of the Pirquitas Mine and our other activities may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. - 13 - We may fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. During our six most recent fiscal years, we documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”). SOX requires an annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, for fiscal years commencing with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We may fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, and we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude, on an ongoing basis, that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX. Our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of SOX on an ongoing, timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price or the market value of our securities. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Future acquisitions of companies, if any, may provide us with challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in our acquired operations. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will detect or uncover all failures of persons within our Company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our processes, procedures and controls could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, as we continue to expand, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal control over financial reporting will increase and will require that we continue to monitor our internal control over financial reporting. Although we intend to expend substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in complying with Section 404 of SOX. Risks Related to our Common Shares Future sales or issuances of equity securities could decrease the value of any existing common shares, dilute investors’ voting power and reduce our earnings per share. We may sell additional equity securities (including through the sale of securities convertible into common shares) and may issue additional equity securities to finance our operations, development, exploration, acquisitions or other projects. We cannot predict the size of future sales and issuances of equity securities or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of equity securities will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of equity securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. With any additional sale or issuance of equity securities, investors will suffer dilution of their voting power and may experience dilution in our earnings per share. - 14 - Our common shares are publicly traded and are subject to various factors that have historically made our common share price volatile. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, subject to large fluctuations, which may result in losses to investors. The market price of our common shares may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: our operating performance and the performance of competitors and other similar companies; volatility in metal prices; the public’s reaction to our press releases, material change reports, other public announcements and our filings with the various securities regulatory authorities; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common shares or the shares of other companies in the resource sector; changes in general economic and/or political conditions; the number of common shares to be publicly traded after an offering of our common shares; the arrival or departure of key personnel; acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; and the factors listed under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. The market price of our common shares is affected by many other variables which are not directly related to our success and are, therefore, not within our control, including other developments that affect the market for all resource sector securities, the breadth of the public market for our common shares and the attractiveness of alternative investments. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of our common shares on the exchanges on which they trade has historically made our common share price volatile and suggests that our common share price will continue to be volatile in the future. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common shares since 1955. We intend to retain earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. Any return on an investment in our common shares will come from the appreciation, if any, in the value of our common shares. The payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be reviewed periodically by our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, conditions then existing including earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, restrictions in financing agreements, business opportunities and conditions and other factors. Item 