Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company operates in a changing environment that involves numerous known risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect its operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected and in the future could affect the Company’s operations. Additional risks that the Company does not yet know of or that it currently thinks are immaterial may also affect business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. The Company may not be able to respond to changing fashion and consumer demands in a timely manner. The footwear, apparel and accessory industries are subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends. The Company believes that its success depends in large part upon its ability to identify and interpret fashion trends and to anticipate and respond to such trends in a timely manner. The Company has generally been successful in this regard but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to meet changing consumer demands or to develop successful styles in the future. If the Company misjudges the market for a particular product or product line, it may result in an increased inventory of unsold and outdated finished goods, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any failure by the Company to identify or respond to changing demands and trends could, in the long term, adversely affect consumer acceptance of the Company’s brand names, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The Company intends to market additional lines of footwear, apparel and fashion accessories in the future. As is typical with new products, demand and market acceptance for any new products introduced by the Company will be subject to uncertainty. Achieving market acceptance for each of these products may require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create customer demand. There can be no assurance that the Company’s marketing effort will successfully generate sales or that the Company will have the funds necessary to undertake such an effort. The Company’s sales are influenced by general economic cycles and the current economic situation. Footwear, apparel and accessories are cyclical industries dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. The Company’s wholesale customers may anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. As a result, any of the following could reduce the Company’s sales and adversely affect its business and financial condition: continued adverse general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending levels, consumer credit availability, global factory production, commercial real estate market conditions, or credit market conditions, or a substantial deterioration in any of these; a substantial increase in fuel and energy costs, unemployment, or interest rates; and any adverse acts of nature or political events. The current economic situation is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, including some of the Company’s customers, suppliers and licensees. Although the Company believes that its cash position will provide it with liquidity sufficient to endure the current environment, the impact of current market conditions on the Company’s major customers, suppliers and licensees cannot be predicted and may be severe. The inability of major manufacturers to ship products could impair the Company’s ability to meet the delivery date requirements of the Company’s customers. A disruption in the ability of the Company’s significant customers and licensees to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of the Company’s products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to the Company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, consumer demand for the Company’s merchandise has been impacted by consumer confidence and other economic factors currently impacting consumer spending behavior. Furthermore, the Company derives a relatively insignificant portion of its sales from international markets, which enhances its exposure to domestic economic conditions. The footwear, apparel and accessory industries are highly competitive. Any increased competition could result in reduced sales or margins. Competition in the footwear, apparel and accessory industries is intense. The Company’s products compete with other branded products within their product categories as well as with private label products sold by retailers, including some of the Company’s customers. To varying degrees, depending on the product category involved, the 17 Company competes on the basis of style, price, quality, comfort and brand prestige and recognition, among other considerations. The Company also competes with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of footwear, apparel and accessories for the limited shelf space available for the display of such products to the consumer. Moreover, the general availability of contract manufacturing capacity allows ease of access by new market entrants. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger, have achieved greater recognition for their brand names, have captured greater market share and/or have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than the Company. The loss of any of the Company’s largest customers could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. Although currently no customer comprises more than ten percent of the Company’s customer base, should one of its larger customers be negatively impacted, it could adversely affect the Company’s business. In recent years the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers may continue to have financial problems, consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could further increase the concentration of the Company’s customers. The loss of any of the Company’s largest customers, or the bankruptcy or material financial difficulty of any customer, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company does not have long-term contracts with any of its customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis. As a result, customers can terminate their relationships with the Company at any time or under certain circumstances cancel or delay orders, which could reduce the Company’s sales and adversely affect its business condition. The success of the Company’s business depends on its ability to attract and retain key employees. The Company is heavily dependent on its current executive officers and management. The loss of any of its executive officers or management, including but not limited to, Kenneth D. Cole, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of new products, harm the Company’s ability to sell products, damage the image of its brands and/or prevent the Company from executing its business strategy. Imposition of quotas and fluctuations in exchange rates could increase the Company’s costs and impact its ability to source goods. The Company’s business is subject to risks of doing business abroad, including, but not limited to, fluctuations in exchange rates and the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges on imports. In order to reduce the risk of exchange rate fluctuations, the Company may enter into forward exchange contracts to protect the purchase price under its agreements with its manufacturers or purchases products in United States dollars. The Company cannot fully anticipate all of its currency needs and, therefore, cannot fully protect against the effect of such fluctuations. Although the majority of the goods sold by the Company are not currently subject to quotas, countries in which the Company’s products are manufactured may, from time to time, impose new or adjust prevailing quotas or other restrictions on exported products and the United States may impose new duties, tariffs and other restrictions on imported products, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s operations and its ability to import its products at the Company’s current or increased quantity levels. Other restrictions on the importation of footwear and the Company’s other products are periodically considered by the United States Congress and no assurances can be given that tariffs or duties on the Company’s goods may not be raised. If tariffs are raised in the future, they will result in higher costs to the Company, and if import quotas are imposed or made more restrictive, the Company may not be able to source its goods at historical factories or at similar prices. The voting shares of the Company’s stock are concentrated in one majority shareholder. Currently, Kenneth D. Cole owns approximately 90% of the voting power and approximately 47% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. As a result, Mr. Cole has the ability to control (i) the election of all of the Company’s directors other than the directors who will be elected by the holders of Class A Common Stock, voting separately as a class, and (ii) the results of all other shareholder matters. Mr. Cole’s interests may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. 18 War, acts of terrorism, and natural disasters could affect the Company’s ability to procure, sell and deliver product. In the event of actual or threatened war, acts of terrorism or the escalation of existing hostilities, or in the event of a natural disaster, the Company’s ability to procure its products from its manufacturers for sale to its customers may be negatively affected. The Company imports a substantial portion of its products from other countries. If it becomes difficult or impossible to import the Company’s products into the countries in which it sells its products, the Company’s sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. Additionally, war, military responses to future international conflicts, and possible future terrorist attacks may lead to a downturn in the U.S. and/or international economies, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing outside the United States. Substantially all of the Company’s products are produced by independent manufacturers. The Company faces the risk that these third-party manufacturers with whom it contracts to produce its products may not produce and deliver its products on a timely basis, or at all. The Company cannot be certain that it will not experience operational difficulties with its manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to the Company’s expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm its business. In addition, the Company’s foreign manufacturers may be adversely affected by additional factors such as political instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located, imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports, imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies and restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries. The capacity of the Company’s manufacturers to manufacture its products also is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. The Company’s manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in delays in deliveries of the Company’s products by its manufacturers or in increased costs to the Company. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to manufacture or ship its products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair the Company’s ability to ship orders of its products in a cost-efficient, timely manner and could cause the Company to miss the delivery requirements of its customers. As a result, the Company could experience cancellations of orders, refusals to accept deliveries or reductions in its prices and margins, any of which could harm the Company’s financial performance and results of operations. The Company relies on licensees for revenues, supply of products and compliance with Company standards. The Company licenses its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of various products and intends to expand its licensing programs. While the Company enters into comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, its licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under the Company’s brand names that do not meet its quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet the Company’s supplier code of conduct. These activities could harm the Company’s brand equity, its reputation and its business. In addition, the Company’s royalty revenues could be affected by the results of its licensees or distributors, or the transition of any of its licensing categories in-house. The financial difficulties of any of its partners or their failure to produce and deliver acceptable product could have an adverse impact on the Company’s royalty revenues in the future. In the event of a business failure of any such partner or of the breakdown of the Company’s relationship with any domestic or foreign partner, there is no guarantee that the Company could replace such royalty revenues or business. Failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels could have an adverse financial effect on the Company’s business. The Company maintains an inventory of selected products that it anticipates will be in high demand. The Company may be unable to sell the products it ordered in advance from manufacturers or that it has in its inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm the Company’s operating results and impair the image of the Company’s brands. Conversely, if the Company underestimates consumer demand for its products 19 or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, the Company may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. The Company relies on third parties for distribution and warehousing. The Company relies on warehousing and distribution facilities operated by third parties in California, New Jersey and Ontario, Canada. Any damage at any of these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or man-made cause, including operational or financial hardship of the provider or its capacity, could impair a portion of the Company’s inventory or its ability to use its warehousing and distribution facilities. Outcomes of litigation or changes in regulatory control could impact the Company’s financial condition. From time to time, the Company may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that the Company devote substantial resources to defend itself. Further, changes in government regulations both in the United States and in the countries in which the Company operates could have adverse affects on its business and subject it to additional regulatory actions. The loss or infringement of the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights, or its failure to procure these rights, could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The Company believes that its trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to its success and competitive position. Accordingly, the Company devotes substantial resources to the establishment and protection of its trademarks on a worldwide basis. There can be no assurances that such actions taken to establish and protect the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of the Company’s products as violative of their trademarks and proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks and proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. During the course of the Company’s expansion of its trademark portfolio, it has experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in one or more of its trademarks or otherwise have contested the Company’s rights to its trademarks. The Company has in the past endeavored to resolve certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to resolve such conflicts successfully or that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any litigation regarding Company trademarks or other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly, and the loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Implementation of management information systems may impact the Company’s financial results. The Company utilizes SAP information management software in its retail operations and may consider further expansion of SAP as an entity-wide integrated system solution. If any further implementation of SAP or new system enhancements is initiated, delays or computer and operational complications in connection with such implementation, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Difficulties migrating existing systems to any new software or enhancements could impact the Company’s ability to design, produce and ship its products on a timely basis. Seasonality of the Company’s business and the timing of store openings and closings could result in fluctuations in its financial performance. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, fourth quarter sales are typically higher due to holiday business. Therefore, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future will continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new store openings and their respective pre-opening costs, as well as store 20 closings and related costs. In 2009, the financial results of the Company were significantly impacted by the severe deterioration of the economy that began in 2008, which negatively impacted the full year results. Adverse publicity could negatively affect public perception of the brand. The Company’s results could be substantially affected by adverse publicity resulting from its products or its advertising. Expiration of leases could result in fluctuations in the Company’s financial performance. As retail store leases expire, the Company may not be able to renew them on acceptable terms or secure suitable replacement locations. While the Company continues to explore new markets and is always evaluating new potential locations, some stores may close, and this may have an adverse impact on the financial operations of the Company’s Consumer Direct division. The Company’s expectations of growth anticipate new store openings which are subject to many factors beyond its control. Future growth in sales and profits in the Company’s Consumer Direct division will depend to some extent on its ability to increase the number of stores. The lease negotiation and development timeframes, and the accomplishment of other milestones on which opening new stores depend, vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays. The number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to net income for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: the identification and availability of suitable markets, locations, and leases; the negotiation of acceptable lease terms for new locations; the development of new merchandise and effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; the successful management of its infrastructure to accommodate new store openings; the fostering of current relationships and development of new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; the availability of suitable financing to the Company and its landlords; the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to the Company from its landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; the ability of the Company and its landlords to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct, open, and operate its stores on a timely basis; the Company’s ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials; the avoidance of construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores; the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; adverse weather during the construction period; and the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s plans to expand its store base may not be successful and may not result in an increase in its revenues even though they increase costs. The Company will be required to enter into additional leases, increase its rental expenses and make capital expenditures for these stores. These commitments may be costly to terminate, and these investments may be difficult to recapture if the Company decides to close a store or alter its strategy. The Company must offer a broad product assortment, appropriately manage retail inventory levels, operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate its stores into its overall business mix. In addition, the opening of stores may divert some revenues from its wholesale customers. The increased demands of operating additional stores could cause the Company to operate less effectively, which could cause the performance of its existing operations to suffer materially. As a result, the Company’s revenues could decline and its profitability could be adversely affected. The effects of hurricanes and other natural disasters may increase insurance costs for which the Company may take on higher deductibles if losses occur. The Company has operations in flood, hurricane and earthquake zones. As such, the Company has insured itself against losses from natural disasters. The cost of such insurance could rise significantly as a result of the effects of future natural disasters throughout the United States. To offset such costs, the Company may take on larger deductibles which, if aggregated through multiple disaster locations, could have a material effect on its results of operations. 21 Negative conditions in global credit markets may impair the Company’s marketable securities portfolio. The Company has investments in auction-rate securities with a fair value of $3.5 million as of December 31, 2009 which reset every 28 days that are “double A” through “double C” rated debt obligations, and substantially all have insurers. Continuing adverse conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If there is insufficient demand for the securities at the time of auction, the auction may not be completed and the interest rates may not be reset to predetermined interest rates. When auctions for these securities fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these investments is successful or they are redeemed or mature. If a decline in market value continues that is deemed other-than-temporary resulting in a writedown, the result could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s ability to collect receivables could be impacted by adverse economic conditions. A financial institution engaged by the Company collects and insures significant receivable balances. If the global credit markets or economic conditions do not improve or worsen, the Company may be exposed to potential significant write-offs that could adversely impact its financial results. In addition, challenging economic conditions may impair the ability of the Company’s customers to pay for products and licensees to pay royalties. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. The worldwide apparel industry is subject to ongoing pricing pressure, which could adversely affect the Company’s sales and margins. The apparel market is characterized by low barriers to entry for both suppliers and marketers, intense competition, global sourcing through suppliers located throughout the world, trade liberalization, continuing movement of product sourcing to lower cost countries, the ongoing emergence of new competitors with widely varying strategies and resources, consolidation in the retail industry, and pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products. These factors contribute to ongoing downward pricing pressure. This pressure may require the Company to: reduce wholesale prices on existing products; reduce gross margins across the Company’s product lines; and yield to increased retailer demands for allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support. If the Company’s sales prices decline and the Company fails to reduce its product costs or operating expenses sufficiently, its losses could continue or grow. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company may experience continued contraction in its primary distribution channels. In the United States, department stores are the primary distribution channels for the Company’s products. Sales through these distribution channels could constrict, or the Company may be unable to increase sales of its products through these channels, for several reasons, including, but not limited to: many of the Company’s primary customers are reducing the number of stores they operate, thereby reducing the number of doors into which the Company’s products can be sold; and these customers maintain — and seek to grow — substantial private-label and exclusive offerings as they strive to differentiate the brands and products they offer from those of their competitors. The ability to maintain retail floor space, market share and sales in these channels depends on the Company’s ability to offer differentiated and exclusive products and to increase retailer profitability on its products, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s margins. The Company cannot assure the successful implementation of its long-term strategic plan. The Company seeks to undertake a number of strategic initiatives, including extending certain of its brands, conducting and executing a strategic review of certain other of its brands, expanding its geographic coverage, and enhancing its operations. The success of its long-term strategic plan and its ability to execute this plan are subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • The Company’s strategy involves the expansion of the Company’s retail stores. The risks associated with that strategy are detailed above under the heading “The Company’s expectations of growth anticipate new store openings which are subject to many factors beyond its control.” 22 • As part of the Company’s strategic plan, it designated certain brands for strategic review, which includes the possible consolidation of certain lines into other brands or the licensure of brands to third parties. There can be no assurances that the Company will identify the appropriate brands for strategic review or that the measures the Company takes with respect to those brands will yield the intended results. • Part of the Company’s strategic plan is the growth of the Le Tigre brand. The growth of that brand cannot be assured. In 2007, the Company signed a two and a half year agreement with JC Penney to relaunch the Le Tigre brand at JC Penney which ends in July 2010. The Company has reached a mutual decision with JC Penney not to renew the agreement. The ability of the Company to execute new or expanding licensee or distribution agreements domestically and abroad for the brand, as well as ongoing economic uncertainty, may negatively impact 2010 and beyond. Additionally, the growth of the brand abroad may be challenged by difficulties procuring the necessary trademarks and proprietary rights. • The Company has previously announced structural realignment measures and other initiatives designed to yield substantial cost savings. There can be no assurances that the Company can successfully execute these measures or that they will produce the anticipated cost savings. • The Company lacks the distribution channels abroad that it has in the U.S., and it may have difficulty developing successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the major countries that it has targeted for significant international growth. Additionally, macroeconomic trends may continue to be extremely difficult, and could limit the Company’s ability to implement its growth strategies in select geographies. The Company could suffer if one of its manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. The Company requires its independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with Company guidelines and applicable laws and regulations. While the Company’s internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, the Company does not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by the Company, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of finished products to the Company or damage its reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company fails to maintain the value of its brands, its sales are likely to decline. The Company’s success depends on the value of its brands. The brands under which the Company sells products are integral to its business as well as to the implementation of its strategies for expanding its business. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning the Company’s brands will depend largely on the success of its marketing and merchandising efforts and its ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Its brands could be adversely affected if it fails to achieve these objectives or if its public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity or consumer perception. Any of these events could result in decreases in sales. The Company’s inability to maintain levels of comparable store sales could cause earnings to decline. If the Company’s future comparable store sales fail to meet market expectations, its losses could continue or grow. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. These factors may cause comparable store sales results to be materially lower than recent periods or expectations, which could cause declines in quarterly earnings and stock price. A reduction in the volume of traffic to the Company’s stores could significantly reduce sales and leave the Company with unsold inventory. The Company’s stores are located in premiere shopping districts and shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those areas. The Company’s mall stores benefit from the ability of the malls’ “anchor” tenants, generally large department stores, and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of its stores and the continuing popularity of the malls as shopping destinations. Sales volume and traffic at mall stores could continue to be adversely affected by economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores and competition from non-mall retailers and other malls where the Company does not have stores. 23 Any of these events, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular mall or area or in the popularity of shopping generally among the Company’s customers, would adversely affect the Company’s results. The inability to renew certain of the Company’s licenses, or to do so on terms that are favorable to the Company, could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. The Company has entered into licenses with numerous partners for the distribution and sale of certain products domestically and around the world. These licenses are for fixed terms, following which the Company and the licensee decide whether they wish to extend the term of the license. There is no guarantee that the Company and its partners will reach mutually agreeable terms for extending a licensing relationship. Similarly, in those instances where a licensee enjoys the option to extend the term of a license as a result of having achieved certain conditions, there is no guarantee that the licensee will avail itself of such option. The Company’s financial results could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to extend a license agreement, if it is unable to do so on terms favorable to the Company, or it if it cannot locate a suitable alternative to an incumbent licensee who has decided not to renew a license. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 