D. Risk Factors Our exploration programs may not result in a commercial mining operation. Mineral exploration involves significant risk because few properties that are explored contain bodies of ore that would be commercially economic to develop into producing mines. Our mineral properties are without a known body of commercial ore and our proposed programs are an exploratory search for ore. We do not know whether our current exploration programs will result in any commercial mining operation. If the exploration programs do not result in the discovery of commercial ore, we will be required to acquire additional properties and write-off all of our investments in our existing properties. We may not have sufficient funds to complete further exploration programs. We have limited financial resources, do not generate operating revenue, and must finance our exploration activity by other means. We do not know whether additional funding will be available for further exploration of our projects or to fulfil our anticipated obligations under our existing property agreements. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we will have to delay or cancel further exploration of our properties, and we could lose all of our interest in our properties. Factors beyond our control may determine whether any mineral deposits we discover are sufficiently economic to be developed into a mine. The determination of whether our mineral deposits are economic is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • market fluctuations for precious metals; • the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment; and • government regulations governing prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. We have no revenue from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. We are a mineral exploration company and have no revenues from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. If our exploration programs successfully locate an economic ore body, we will be subject to additional risks associated with mining: • We will require additional funds to place the ore body into commercial production. Substantial expenditures will be required to: o establish ore reserves through drilling; o develop metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore; and o construct the mining and processing facilities at any site chosen for mining. We do not know whether additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms. If additional financing is not available, we may have to postpone the development of, or sell, the property. - 4 - Table of Contents • The majority of our property interests are not located in developed areas and as a result may not be served by appropriate o road access; o water and power supply; and o other support infrastructure. These items are often needed for development of a commercial mine. If we cannot procure or develop roads, water, power and other infrastructure at a reasonable cost, it may not be economic to develop properties, where our exploration has otherwise been successful, into a commercial mining operation. • In making determinations about whether to proceed to the next stage of development, we must rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineral reserves and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. Any material changes in mineral reserve estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of the placing of a property into production and a property’s return on capital. • Mining operations often encounter unpredictable risks and hazards that add expense or cause delay. These include: o unusual or unexpected geological formations; o power outages; o labour disruptions; o flooding, explosions, rockbursts, cave-ins, landslides, and; o inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labour. We may become subject to liabilities in connection with: o pollution; o cave-ins; or o hazards against which we cannot insure against or which may elect not to insure. The payment of these liabilities could require the use of financial resources that would otherwise be spent on mining operations. • Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to national and local laws and regulations governing: o prospecting, development, mining and production; o exports and taxes; o labour standards, occupational health and mine safety; o waste disposal, toxic substances, land use and environmental protection. In order to comply, we may be required to make capital and operating expenditures or to close an operation until a particular problem is remedied. In addition, if our activities violate any such laws and regulations, we may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage, and may be fined if convicted of an offence under such legislation. - 5 - Table of Contents • Our profitability and long-term viability will depend, in large part, on the market price of silver, gold, tin, zinc and lead. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: o global or regional consumption patterns; o supply of, and demand for, silver, gold, tin, zinc and lead; o speculative activities; o expectations for inflation; and o political and economic conditions. We cannot predict the effect of these factors on metals prices. Our properties may be subject to uncertain title. We own, lease or have under option, unpatented and patented mining claims, mineral claims or concessions which constitute our property holdings. The ownership and validity, or title, of unpatented mining claims and concessions are often uncertain and may be contested. A successful claim contesting our title to a property will cause us to lose our rights to explore and, if warranted, develop that property. This could result in our not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. Land reclamation requirements for our exploration properties may be burdensome. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: • control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; and • reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our mineral exploration, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration programs. Political or economic instability or unexpected regulatory change in the countries where our properties are located could adversely affect our business. Certain of our properties are located in countries, provinces and states more likely to be subject to political and economic instability, or unexpected legislative change, than is usually the case in certain other countries, provinces and states. Our mineral exploration activities could be adversely affected by: • political instability and violence; • war and civil disturbance; • expropriation or nationalization; • changing fiscal regimes; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; - 6 - Table of Contents • high rates of inflation; • underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; and • unenforceability of contractual rights; any of which may adversely affect our business in that country. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We maintain our bank accounts mainly in Canadian and U.S. dollars. Any appreciation in the currencies of Argentina, Australia, Chile, Mexico or other countries where we carryout exploration activities against the Canadian or U.S. dollar will increase our costs of carrying out operations in such countries. In addition, any decrease in the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar will result in a loss on our books to the extent we hold funds in U.S. dollars. We face industry competition in the acquisition of exploration properties and the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with other exploration companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us or are further in their development, for the acquisition of mineral claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. If we require and are unsuccessful in acquiring additional mineral properties or personnel, we will not be able to grow at the rate we desire or at all. Some of our directors and officers have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some our directors and officers are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies such as, at present, Mr. Quartermain who serves as a director and officer of Radiant Resources Inc. (formerly Pacific Sapphire Company Ltd.) and as a director of Canplats Resources Corporation, IAMGold Corporation (formerly Repadre Capital Corporation), Vista Gold Corporation, Rare Element Resources Ltd. (formerly Paso Rico Resources Ltd.), Esperanza Silver Corporation (formerly Reliant Ventures Ltd.) and Minco Silver Corporation. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. As a result of these conflicts of interest, we may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material, adverse effect on our financial position. Enforcement of judgments or bringing actions outside the United States against us and our directors and officers may be difficult. We are organized under the law of and headquartered in British Columbia, Canada, and none of our directors and officers are citizens or residents of the United States. In addition, a substantial part of our assets are located outside the United States and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor to (a) enforce in courts outside the United States judgments against us and our directors and officers obtained in United States’ courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States’ federal securities laws or (b) bring in courts outside the United States an original action against us and our directors and officers to enforce liabilities based upon such United States’ securities laws. - 7 - Table of Contents 