ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS BankAtlantic A decline in the Florida real estate market has and may continue to adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market during 2007, and the continued decline in home sales and median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, resulted in a substantial increase in non-performing assets and our provision for loan losses. The housing industry is experiencing what many consider to be its worst downturn in 16 years and market conditions have continued to worsen throughout 2007 and into 2008 reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over- supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, certain national and regional home builders have sought or indicated that they may seek bankruptcy protection. If these market conditions do not improve during 2008 or deteriorate further, or if these market conditions and slowing economy negatively impact the commercial non-residential real estate market, our earnings and financial condition may be adversely impacted because a significant portion of our loans are secured by real estate in Florida, and the level of business deposits from customers dependent on the Florida real estate market and the Florida economy in general may decline. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.6 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 60% of its loan portfolio. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate lending which makes its loan portfolio more susceptible to credit losses in the current depressed real estate market. The national real estate market declined significantly during 2007, particularly in Florida, our primary lending area. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (virtually all of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout our markets in Florida). We have a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the real estate sector. We have identified three categories of loans in our commercial residential development loan portfolio that we believe have significant exposure to the declines in the Florida residential real estate market. These categories are as follows: The “builder land bank loan” category consists of 12 loans and aggregates $149.6 million. This category consists of land loans to borrowers who have or had land purchase option agreements with regional and/or national builders. These 18 Table of Contents loans were originally underwritten based on projected sales of the developed lots to the builders/option holders, and timely repayment of the loans is primarily dependent upon the sale of the property pursuant to the options. If the lots are not sold as originally anticipated, BankAtlantic anticipates that the borrower may not be in a position to service the loan, with the likely result being an increase in nonperforming loans and loan losses in this category. The number of homebuilders who have publicly announced that they are, or are contemplating, terminating these options or seeking bankruptcy protection substantially increases the risk that the lots will not be acquired as contemplated. Six loans in this category totaling $86.5 million were on non-accrual at December 31, 2007. The “land acquisition and development loan” category consists of 34 loans and aggregates $202.2 million and generally consists of loans secured by residential land which is intended to be developed by the borrower and sold to homebuilders. These loans are generally underwritten more stringently than builder land bank loans, as an option agreement with a regional or national builder did not exist at the origination date. Two loans in this category totaling $7.3 million were on non-accrual at December 31, 2007. The “land acquisition, development and construction loan” category consists of 29 loans and aggregates $151.3 million. This category generally consists of loans secured by residential land which will be fully developed by the borrower who may also construct homes on the property. These loans generally involve property with a longer investment and development horizon, are guaranteed by the borrower or individuals and/or are secured by additional collateral or equity such that it is expected that the borrower will have the ability to service the debt for a longer period of time. Seven loans in this category totaling $57.2 million were on non-accrual at December 31, 2007. Market conditions may result in BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time or deteriorates further, collateral values may further decline and are likely to result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial real estate loans are approximately $102 million of commercial non-residential land development loans. Our commercial mortgage non-residential loan portfolio has performed better than our commercial residential development loan portfolio in the current real estate market environment. However, this portfolio could be susceptible to extended maturities or borrower default, and we could experience higher credit losses and non-performing loans in this portfolio as the Florida economy is showing signs of a slow down, capital markets involving commercial real estate loans have recently deteriorated, broader non residential real estate market conditions have begun to show signs of weakness and lenders have begun to tighten credit standards and limit availability of financing. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes large lending relationships, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $30 million. These relationships represented eight borrowers with an aggregate outstanding balance of $240 million as of December 31, 2007. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where we operate our store network. The decline in residential real estate prices and residential home sales throughout Florida has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in our home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve in the near term. Approximately 80% of the loans in our home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages and if current economic conditions deteriorate for borrowers and their home prices continue to fall, we may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio primarily consists of second mortgages, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or any portion of our loan proceeds in the event of a default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. 19 Table of Contents BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio subjects it to high levels of credit risk. BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, BankAtlantic seeks to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic attempts to manage credit exposure to individual borrowers and counter-parties on an aggregate basis including loans, securities, letters of credit, derivatives and unfunded commitments. While credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan and will not be in a position to make independent determinations in its sole discretion with respect to its interests. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. Approximately 50% of our purchased residential loan portfolio (approximately $1.1 billion) consists of interest-only loans. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, they are non-traditional loans due to reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages. Increase in the Allowance for Loan Losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic evaluates the collectibility of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • Previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. BankAtlantic may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. In addition, BankAtlantic’s regulators may require it to increase 20 Table of Contents or decrease its allowance for loan losses even if BankAtlantic thinks such change is unjustified. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, and any economic downturn in Florida, including unemployment, declines in tourism, the declining real estate market, or adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Florida, adverse changes in laws or regulations in Florida or natural disasters could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, growth, the level of deposits our customers maintain with BankAtlantic, the success of BankAtlantic’s customers’ business activities, and the ability of BankAtlantic to operate profitably. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, we cannot provide assurances that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as 21 Table of Contents interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to quantify its interest rate risk, in support of its Asset/Liability Committee. This model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. During most of 2007, the short term interest rates were approximately equal to longer term rates. This is referred to as a “flat yield curve.” BankAtlantic’s net interest income is largely derived from a combination of two factors: the level of core deposits, such as demand savings and NOW deposits, and the ability of banks to raise short term deposits and other borrowings and invest them at longer maturities. The flat yield curve during 2007 significantly impacted the ability of BankAtlantic to profitably raise short term funds for longer term investment as the interest rate spread between short term and long term maturities was negligible. While the recent decline in interest rates and the widening of interest rate spreads between long-term and short term interest rates could lessen the negative impact of a flat yield curve on our net interest income, future patterns of interest rates, including the relationship between short term and long term rates, and its overall impact on our net interest income is very difficult to predict. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative and related infrastructure expansion to support a larger organization has resulted in higher operating expenses, which has had an adverse impact on our earnings. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative, the opening of 32 stores since January 2005 and the related expansion of our infrastructure and operations have required us to provide additional management resources, hire additional personnel, increase compensation, occupancy and marketing expenditures, and take steps to enhance and expand our operational and management information systems. Employee compensation, occupancy and equipment and advertising expenses have significantly increased since the inception of the initiative, during 2002, from $78.9 million during 2001 to $234.3 million during 2007. During the three years ended December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic opened 32 new stores. In 2007, in response to the current economic environment and its impact on BankAtlantic’s financial results, BankAtlantic slowed its retail network expansion and reduced its service hours in an effort to reduce operating expenses. Despite this decision to slow future store expansion, we will continue to incur increased operating expenses, compared to historical levels, resulting from the new stores opened during the last three years and the anticipated opening of four new stores during the first quarter of 2008. While BankAtlantic’s management is focused on reducing overall non-interest expense, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in its efforts to reduce operating expenses. BankAtlantic’s new stores may not achieve profitability. Since January 2005, BankAtlantic has opened 32 stores and anticipates opening four stores during 2008. In the current adverse economic environment, the amount of time required for these new stores to become profitable is uncertain and the growth in deposits and loans at these stores may not meet management’s expectations. The new stores are located throughout Florida and represent a 51% increase, based on the number of stores, in BankAtlantic’s retail network. There is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in managing this expanded retail network profitably. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts. BankAtlantic’s core deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in core deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Also, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in an increase in overdraft fee charge-offs and a corresponding increase in our overdraft fee reserves. Additionally, future changes in banking regulations, in particular limitations on retail customer fees, may impact this revenue source. Any of such changes could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. 22 Table of Contents Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. A risk of doing business in the banking industry is that a failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments, depending upon the type of violation and various other factors. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. Parent Company BankAtlantic Bancorp services its debt and pays dividends primarily from dividends from BankAtlantic, which are subject to regulatory limits. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and dividends from BankAtlantic represent a significant portion of its cash flows. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulatory limitations and the authority of the OTS and the FDIC. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. At December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic’s accumulated deficit for the previous two years was $23.7 million and accordingly, BankAtlantic is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. There is no assurance that the OTS will approve future capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The OTS may object to any capital distribution if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. The OTS is not likely to approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail to meet its capital requirements on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. The FDIC has backup authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a capital distribution by BankAtlantic constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has cleared the distribution. At December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic Bancorp had approximately $294.2 million of indebtedness outstanding at the holding company level with maturities ranging from 2032 through 2037. The aggregate annual interest expense on this indebtedness is approximately $23.1 million based on interest rates at December 31, 2007 and is generally indexed to three-month LIBOR. During 2007, BankAtlantic Bancorp received $20 million of dividends from BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results would be adversely affected if the amounts needed to satisfy its debt obligations, including any additional indebtedness incurred in the future, significantly exceed the amount of dividends it receives from its subsidiaries. We are controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its control position may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2007, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 15%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 55% of the Company’s total voting power. Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC is in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our activities and our subsidiary’s activities are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to us; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit our activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • impose capital requirements on us. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company we are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations including our ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision – Holding Company.” Our portfolio of equity securities subjects us to equity pricing risks. We maintain a portfolio of equity securities in both publicly traded and privately held companies that subject us to equity pricing risks arising in connection with changes in the values due to changing market and economic conditions. Volatility or a decline in the financial markets can negatively impact our net income as a result of devaluation of these investments and the subsequent recognition of other-than-temporary declines in value. At December 31, 2007, we had equity securities with a book value of approximately $123.0 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In connection with the sale of Ryan Beck to Stifel in February 2007, we received approximately 2,377,354 shares of Stifel common stock and warrants to acquire 481,724 shares of Stifel common stock at $36.00 per share. In addition to limitations imposed by federal securities laws, we are subject to contractual restrictions which limit the number of Stifel shares that we are permitted to sell in the open market during the 18 month period following the sale . Even after these restrictions lapse, the trading market for Stifel shares may not be sufficiently liquid to enable us to sell Stifel common stock that we own without significantly reducing the market price of these shares, if we are able to sell them at all. In January 2008, we sold 250,000 shares of Stifel common stock to Stifel for net proceeds of $10.6 million. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 