ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations and the mix of our assets significantly changed as a result of the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T and our financial condition and results of operations depends on the monetization of our assets at or near their current book values and our results of operations will vary depending upon the timing of such monetization. As a result of the BB&T Transaction, our business and operations significantly changed from our business and operations prior to the sale of BankAtlantic. As a consequence, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the near term, in large part, on our ability to successfully manage and monetize the assets currently held in CAM and BBX Partners and the assets held in FAR which we have been engaged to service, as well as the cash flow we receive based on our interest in FAR. Additionally, because a majority of FAR’s assets are serviced by a third party servicer, we are also dependent on the ability and efforts of our servicer to efficiently manage and monetize these assets. Further, nonaccrual loans and real estate are generally not easily salable in the event we decide to liquidate an asset through a sale transaction. Our financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the longer term on these factors as well as our ability to successfully invest these cash flows. If the assets held in CAM and BBX Partners and the assets held in FAR are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, or if these assets are liquidated for amounts less than book value, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and our ability to successfully pursue our business goals could be adversely affected. Because a majority of these assets are nonaccrual and otherwise do not generate income on a regular basis, we do not expect to generate significant revenue or income with respect to these assets until such time as an asset is monetized through repayments or transactions involving the sale, joint venture or development of the underlying real estate. Accordingly, we expect our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. 8 Our current business strategy includes a substantial investment in Woodbridge in connection with its acquisition of Bluegreen which exposes us to risks inherent in the time-share industry. The Company’s anticipated investment in Woodbridge whose primary asset is all of the outstanding shares of Bluegreen will expose us to risks inherent in the time-share industry. Bluegreen is a New York Stock Exchange listed company that files reports with the SEC. You can read information about Bluegreen’s business, including the risk factors associated with an investment in Bluegreen in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 filed with the SEC and available on the SEC’s website www.sec.gov. Our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investing in or acquiring middle market operating companies and some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful or even if successful may not initially generate income, or may generate income on an irregular basis or over a long time period, thus causing our results of operations to very significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions we make may: • fail to accomplish our strategic objectives; • not perform as expected; and/or • expose us to the risks of the business that we acquire. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions may rely on additional debt or equity financing. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A Common Stock. If we do require additional financing in the future, the financing may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. We plan to conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we may be adversely impacted by a joint venture partners' failure to fulfill their obligations. By using joint ventures, we can reduce the amount we invest in real estate properties. However, our joint venture partners may become financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreements. Most joint ventures borrow money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans is generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, we and our joint venture partners may be required to provide financial support. If joint venture partners do not perform on their obligations, we may incur significant expenditures which may have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the cumulative decline in median home prices in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in substantial non-performing assets and provision for loan losses. The loans retained by the Company in the BB&T Transaction were primarily in the Florida market and adverse changes to the Florida economy or the real estate market may negatively impact the Company’s earnings and financial condition. 9 Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us susceptible to credit losses from downturns in the real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida. The Company’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans most of which are located in Florida, residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (mainly in Florida). The Company has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2012, 85% of the Company’s loan portfolio based on book value was located in Florida. An increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. BBX Capital is exposed to the risk that its borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. The Company’s management evaluates the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; a • estimated fair value of the collateral; and . • current economic conditions; Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect our ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in the loan portfolio. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if we perceive adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s non-performing loans totaled $204.6 million, or 69% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate) were $293.2 million, or 62% of our total assets. In addition, the Company had approximately 12.8 million in accruing loans that were 31-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2012. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income through foreclosure costs, operating expenses and taxes. Until we monetize these assets, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to these non-performing loans and non-performing assets. We record interest income on non-performing loans on a cash basis and generally incur operating losses associated with real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans and non-performing assets adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we seek to manage our nonperforming assets, decreases in the value of these assets or deterioration in our borrowers’ financial condition, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of management time. FAR’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by properties located in South Florida. 10 The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida over the past several years has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to adverse conditions in the economy and real estate markets, financial institutions and other lenders have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends for home equity loan portfolios. The majority of FAR’s home equity loans are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If home prices remain depressed, FAR may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that FAR will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless FAR is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation which have resulted in significant non-interest expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include litigation which has been brought by the SEC, litigation arising out of our workouts and foreclosures, and legal proceedings associated with BankAtlantic’s tax certificate business. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a further discussion regarding the material legal proceedings to which the Company is currently subject. Adverse market conditions may affect our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions. In particular, we may experience and may continue to be impacted by the following risks in connection with these events: • Our borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. funds • Disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may adversely impact our ability to borrow funds on favorable terms or at all. . • Continued asset valuation declines could further increase our credit losses and result in additional impairments. 11 Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. The Company’s business, the primary source of repayment for its loans and the real estate collateralizing its loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. Our recent financial performance may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company incurred losses from continuing operations of $28.5 million, $59.5 million and $133.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The Company’s ability to fund its operations and investment opportunities may depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to monetize its portfolio of non-performing loans and real estate owned. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, as well as litigation and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to fund operations or anticipated investments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC owns shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 75% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B common stock representing approximately 71% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity 12 between the equity interest represented by our Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents and our recently adopted rights agreement may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B Common Stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. On February 7, 2013, the Company entered into a Rights Agreement with its stock transfer agent which is designed to preserve certain tax benefits available to the Company. However, because the Rights Agreement provides a deterrent to investors from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in our Class A Common Stock it may have an anti-takeover effect. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A Common Stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A Common Stock from the NYSE. The Company’s Class A Common Stock currently trades on the NYSE. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or, with respect to listed companies with shareholders’ equity of less than $50 million, the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $50 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. The NYSE’s market capitalization and equity requirements are based on the Company’s publicly traded stock at the holding company level. While the Company currently meets all NYSE listing requirements, the Company has from time to time in the past failed to maintain compliance with the trading price and market capitalization standards and may in the future fail to maintain the standards. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract new employees as needed. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Alan Levan. While the Company believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. In the event Mr. Alan Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of the Company, the Company and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by 13 the continuation of service of other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director and Vice Chairman of the Company and Jarett Levan, President, who previously served as President and CEO of BankAtlantic. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 