ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations and the mix of our assets significantly changed as a result of the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T during July 2012, and our financial condition and results of operations depend on the monetization of our assets at or near their current book values and our results of operations will vary depending upon the timing of such monetization and the success of any investment of available funds. As a result of the BB&T Transaction, the Company’s business and operations significantly changed from its business and operations prior to the sale of BankAtlantic. As a consequence, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the near term, on our ability to successfully manage and monetize the assets currently held by BBX Partners, which held approximately $14.3 million of loans and foreclosed real estate as of December 31, 2014, the assets currently held by CAM, and the assets held in FAR and on the results of operations of Bluegreen and its ability to continue to pay dividends to Woodbridge. Additionally, because a majority of FAR’s assets are serviced by a third party servicer, the Company is also dependent on the ability and efforts of the servicer to efficiently manage and monetize the assets. Further, nonaccrual loans and real estate may not be easily salable in the event the Company decides to liquidate an asset through a sale transaction. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the longer term on these factors as well as its ability to successfully invest these cash flows. If the assets held in CAM and BBX Partners and the assets held in FAR are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, or if these assets are liquidated for amounts less than book value, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and our ability to successfully pursue our business goals could be adversely affected. Because a majority of these assets do not generate income on a regular basis, the Company does not expect to generate significant revenue or income with respect to these assets until such time as an asset is monetized through repayments or transactions involving the sale, joint venture or development of the underlying real estate. Accordingly, the Company expects its revenues and results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Our substantial investment in Woodbridge and our indirect interest in Bluegreen exposes us to the risks associated with Bluegreen and the vacation ownership industry. As previously described, we invested $71.75 million in Woodbridge during April 2013 in exchange for a 46% equity interest in Woodbridge. Woodbridge owns all of the shares of Bluegreen’s common stock which constitute Woodbridge’s primary asset. While Woodbridge and Bluegreen are not consolidated into our financial statements, our investment in Woodbridge is significant and our operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity, is dependent in part on Bluegreen’s performance and its ability to pay dividends. Bluegreen is subject to various risks and uncertainties which may impact its business and results, including, but not limited to, the following: · Bluegreen’s business and operations, including its ability to market Vacation Ownership Interests (“VOIs”), is subject to risks related to general economic conditions and the availability of financing; · The vacation ownership and hospitality industries are highly competitive, and Bluegreen may not be able to compete successfully; · Bluegreen would incur substantial losses and Bluegreen’s liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers to whom Bluegreen provides financing default on their obligations; · While Bluegreen has attempted to restructure its business to reduce its need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that Bluegreen’s business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on its ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all; · Bluegreen's indebtedness may impact its financial condition and results of operations, and the terms of Bluegreen's indebtedness may limit its activities; · The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact Bluegreen’s ability to obtain, renew or extend credit facilities, or otherwise raise funds; · Bluegreen’s future success depends on its ability to market its products and services successfully and efficiently and Bluegreen’s marketing expenses may increase; 14 · Bluegreen may not be successful in increasing or expanding its capital-light business relationships, and its capital-light activities, including fee based, sales and marketing, just-in-time VOI arrangements, and secondary market sales activities, and such activities may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition; · Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if Bluegreen does not continue to participate in exchange networks and other strategic alliances with third parties or if Bluegreen’s customers are not satisfied with the networks in which Bluegreen participates or Bluegreen’s strategic alliances; · The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect Bluegreen’s business; · Bluegreen is subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including a decline in real estate values and a deterioration of other conditions relating to the real estate market and real estate development; · Adverse outcomes in legal or other regulatory proceedings, including claims for development-related defects, could adversely affect Bluegreen’s financial condition and operating results; · Bluegreen may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of Bluegreen’s tax returns or those of Bluegreen’s subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on Bluegreen’s financial condition; · Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on Bluegreen’s financial condition and operating results; · A failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in damage to Bluegreen's reputation and/or subject Bluegreen to costs, fines, or lawsuits; · Bluegreen’s technology requires updating and the failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair Bluegreen's operations or competitive position; · There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse impact on Bluegreen’s operating results and financial condition; and · The loss of the services of Bluegreen’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its business. For more detailed information regarding Bluegreen’s business, the risks set forth above and other risks which Bluegreen faces, see BFC’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov, including the “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Bluegreen” section thereof. During the year ended December 31, 2014 and the nine months ended December 31, 2013, we received dividends totaling $52.2 million from Woodbridge following its receipt of dividends from Bluegreen. As indicated above, Bluegreen’s debt instruments contain restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. In addition, dividend payments by Bluegreen are subject to declaration by Bluegreen’s board of directors, and subsequent dividends by Woodbridge are subject to the approval of the board of directors of BFC as well as our board of directors. Dividend decisions outside of our control may not be made in our best interest. If Bluegreen is unable to pay dividends or Bluegreen or Woodbridge does not otherwise pay dividends, our liquidity would be materially and adversely impacted. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity” for additional information. Our future acquisitions may reduce earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investments in or acquisitions of operating companies, such as our acquisitions of Renin Corp. and the acquisitions of businesses by BBX Sweet Holdings in the candy and confections industry. Some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Investments or acquisitions that we complete may not prove to be successful or even if successful may not initially generate income, or may generate income on an irregular basis or over a long time period, thus causing our results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business, or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: · Difficulties in assimilating acquired management and operations; · Risks associated with achieving profitability; · The incurrence of significant due diligence expenses relating to acquisitions that are not completed; · Unforeseen expenses; · Risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · The potential loss of key employees or founders of acquired organizations; and · Risks associated with transferred assets and liabilities. We may not be able to acquire or profitably manage additional businesses, or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses, including Renin and the businesses BBX Sweet Holdings acquired, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties, including difficulties in integrating information systems and personnel and establishing control environment processes across acquired businesses. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that we acquire operating businesses outside the United States or the State of Florida, we may face additional risks related to the compliance with foreign regulations and laws including tax laws, labor laws, currency fluctuations and geography economic conditions. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions may rely on additional debt or equity financing. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A Common Stock. If we require additional financing in the future, the financing may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. We plan to conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest, and we may be adversely impacted by a joint venture partner’s failure to fulfill its obligations. By using joint ventures, we can reduce the amount we invest in real estate properties. However, our joint venture partners may become financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreements. Most joint ventures borrow money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans is generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, we may be required to provide financial support. If joint venture partners do not perform on their obligations, we may incur significant expenditures which may have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Investments in real estate developments directly or through joint ventures expose us to market and economic risks inherent in the real estate construction and development industry. The real estate construction and development industry is highly competitive and subject to numerous risks which in many cases are beyond management’s control. The success of our real estate development investments is dependent on many factors, including: · Demand for or oversupply of new homes, rental apartments and commercial real estate; · Demand for commercial real estate tenants; · Real estate market values; · Changes in capitalization rates impacting real estate values; · Inventory of foreclosed homes negatively impacting selling prices; · Availability and reasonable pricing of skilled labor; 16 · Availability and reasonable pricing of construction materials such as lumber, framing, concrete and other building materials; · Changes in laws and regulations for new construction and land entitlements, including environmental and zoning laws and regulations; · Natural disasters and severe weather conditions increasing costs, delaying construction, causing uninsured losses or reducing demand for new homes; · Availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential purchasers; · Mortgage loan interest rates; · Availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and · Construction defects and product liability claims. Any of these factors could give rise to delays in the start or completion of a project, or increase the cost of developing a project, or could result in reduced prices and values for our developments, including developments underlying our joint venture investments. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration in prior periods of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the cumulative decline in median home prices in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in substantial non-performing loans and provision for loan losses during prior periods. The loans retained by us through CAM and FAR in the BB&T Transaction and the real estate properties we acquired through foreclosure or settlements with borrowers are primarily in the Florida market, and adverse changes to the Florida economy or the real estate market may negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us susceptible to credit losses from downturns in the real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (mainly in Florida). We have a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. An increase in our allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of these loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Management evaluates the collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: · the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; · previous loan loss experience; · specific loans that have probable loss potential; · delinquency trends; · estimated fair value of the collateral; and · current economic conditions. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect our ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in the loan portfolio. If such evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults 17 cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if perceived adverse trends require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, the Company’s earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Non-performing loans take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2014, our non-performing loans totaled approximately $17.8 million or 64% of our total loan portfolio. Our non-performing loans adversely affect our net income through foreclosure costs, operating expenses and taxes. Until we monetize these loans, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to these non-performing loans. We record interest income on non-performing loans on a cash basis. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us. These loans also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we seek to manage nonperforming loans, decreases in the value of these loans or deterioration in the financial condition of our borrowers, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing loans requires significant commitments of management time. FAR’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by properties located in South Florida. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida over the past several years has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to adverse conditions in the economy and real estate markets, financial institutions and other lenders have tightened underwriting standards which has limited the ability of borrowers to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends for home equity loan portfolios. The majority of FAR’s home equity loans are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If home prices decline, FAR may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that FAR will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless FAR is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company is involved in ongoing litigation which has resulted in significant selling, general and administrative expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include litigation brought by the SEC, litigation arising out of workouts and foreclosures, and legal proceedings associated with BankAtlantic’s tax certificate business. As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceeding, the jury in the SEC action found that BBX Capital and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan had engaged in an act of fraud or deceit toward shareholders or prospective investors by making materially false statements knowingly or with severe recklessness (1) with respect to three statements in a July 25, 2007 conference call and (2) in their decision to sell certain loans in the fourth quarter of 2007 and failing to classify the loans as held-for sale in the 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The jury also found that Mr. Levan made or caused to be made false statements to the independent accountants regarding the held for sale issue. While BBX Capital and Mr. Levan intend to appeal any adverse judgment to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, the results of appellate review are uncertain and we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs in connection with the actions. We have received legal fee and cost reimbursements from our insurance carrier in connection with the SEC action of approximately $5.8 million as of December 31, 2014. Our insurance carrier has indicated it may seek reimbursement for costs, charges and expenses advanced in connection with this matter and these potential insurance carrier reimbursements would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Adverse market conditions may affect our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. 18 Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments. While we believe that real estate markets and general economic conditions have shown signs of improvement during the past year, further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, and may impact charge-offs and provisions for loan losses and the value of our real estate and other real estate related assets. A worsening of conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. Our business, the primary source of repayment for loans and the real estate collateralizing loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure or settlements with borrowers and are investments in real estate joint ventures are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans, adversely impact the value of any collateral securing loans and our portfolio of real estate (both held-for-sale and held-for-investment), or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. Renin sales are concentrated with two significant customers. A significant amount of Renin’s sales are to big-box home centers. These home centers in many instances have significant negotiating leverage with their vendors, and are able to affect the prices Renin receives for its products and the terms and conditions on which Renin conducts its business with them. These home centers may also reduce the number of vendors they purchase from or make significant changes in their volume of purchases. Although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for Renin’s products, the loss of a home center customer or reduced sales volume from any of these home centers would have a material adverse effect on Renin’s business. A significant portion of Renin’s business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical and outside of management’s control. A significant portion of Renin’s business in Canada and the United States is dependent on the levels of home improvement activity, including spending on repair and remodeling projects, and new home construction activity. Macroeconomic conditions including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, interest rates, regulatory initiatives, and the availability of home equity loans and mortgage financing affect both discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. Adverse changes in these factors or uncertainty regarding these macroeconomic conditions could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, both of which could adversely affect Renin’s results of operations. Our operating businesses, Renin and the BBX Sweet Holdings companies, operating results would be negatively impacted if they experience increased commodity costs or a limited availability of commodities. Our operating businesses purchase various commodities to manufacture products, including steel, aluminum, glass and mirror in the case of Renin, and sugar and cocoa in the case of BBX Sweet Holdings. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase the cost to manufacture products. Further, increases in energy costs could increase production costs as well as transportation costs, each of which could negatively affect these businesses operating results. Renin’s and BBX Sweet Holdings’ existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and the relative negotiating power and resistance of home center customers and big-box retailers to price increases make it difficult to increase selling prices to absorb 19 increased production costs. If Renin and BBX Sweet Holdings are not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve other cost savings or productivity improvements to offset any increased commodity and production costs, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Unexpected events, such as natural disasters, severe weather and terrorist activities may disrupt Renin’s operations and increase its production costs. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather or terrorist activities in countries or regions in which Renin’s suppliers are located could adversely affect Renin’s operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, or other unexpected events could result in temporary or long-term disruption in the delivery or supply of necessary raw materials and component products from Renin’s suppliers, which would disrupt Renin’s production capabilities and likely increase its cost of doing business. Market demand for chocolate products could decline. BBX Sweet Holdings and its acquired businesses operate in highly competitive markets and compete with larger companies that have greater resources. The success of these businesses is impacted by many factors, including the following: · Effective retail execution; · Appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs; · Adequate supply of commodities at a reasonable cost; · Oversight of product safety; · Response to changes in consumer preferences and tastes; and · Changes in consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. A decline in market demand for chocolate products could negatively affect our operating results. BBX Sweet Holdings product recall or product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. Selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We could decide or be required to destroy inventory, recall products or lose sales in connection with contamination, tampering, adulteration or other deficiencies. These events could result in significant losses and may damage our reputation, and discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may also incur losses if our products cause injury, illness or death. A significant product liability claim may adversely affect our reputation and profitability, even if the claim is unsuccessful. Our financial performance may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to fund operations and investment opportunities may depend on our ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on our ability to monetize our portfolio of non-performing loans. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, as well as litigation and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to fund operations or anticipated investments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 20 We are controlled by BFC and its controlling shareholders, and this control position may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. BFC currently owns 8,133,353 shares of our Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 51% of the outstanding shares of such stock and all 195,045 outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock representing approximately 72% of our total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BBX Capital and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC, and John E. Abdo, Vice Chairman of BBX Capital and BFC, collectively beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 74% of BFC’s total voting power. BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control BBX Capital, elect BBX Capital’s board of directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with the Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of the Company, and the Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. The Company’s Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of the Company’s total common equity and 47% of the Company’s total voting power. As a result, the voting power of the Company’s Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of the Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by the Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of the Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to shares of Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of the Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, and recently adopted shareholder rights plan, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or its management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: · the provisions in the Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of Class B Common Stock; · the authority of the board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; and · advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. In addition, on February 7, 2013, the Company adopted a shareholder rights plan which is designed to preserve certain tax benefits available to the Company. However, because the rights plan provides a deterrent to 21 investors from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in Class A Common Stock, it may have an anti-takeover effect. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract new employees as needed. In addition, as previously described, the jury in the SEC action found that BBX Capital and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan committed violations of federal securities laws. While BBX Capital and Mr. Levan intend to appeal any adverse judgment to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, the results of appellate review are uncertain. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties of $5.2 million against the Company and $1.56 million against Mr. Levan, the SEC is seeking an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Levan. While we continue to believe that the Company and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the jury verdict represents a finding of violations of securities laws involving the making of materially false statements knowingly or with severe recklessness and the outcome of an appeal is uncertain. If the findings of fraud by the Company and/or Mr. Levan are upheld, this may adversely affect the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. In the event Mr. Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of BBX Capital, BBX Capital and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of service of other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director and Vice Chairman of the Company and Jarett Levan, President, who previously served as President and CEO of BankAtlantic. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. We rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems, including Internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. Our IT systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. Moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and even the enhanced controls we have installed might be breached. If our IT systems cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations. If our cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about borrowers, employees or investments. This could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of our computer systems. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 