ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS BankAtlantic Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income and the cost of purchasing residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, we cannot provide assurances that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans, and if loans are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage portfolio in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment loan prepayments generally decline resulting in loan yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic has developed a computer model using standard industry software to quantify its interest rate risk, referred to as an “ALCO model” in support of its Asset/Liability Committee. This model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. The current level of short term interest rates is approximately equal to longer term rates. This is referred to as a “flat yield curve.” This situation has existed for some time extending back to 2005. BankAtlantic’s net interest income is largely derived from a combination of two factors: the level of core deposits, such as demand savings and NOW deposits, and the ability of banks to raise short term deposits and other borrowings and invest them at longer maturities. The current flat yield curve has significantly impacted the ability of BankAtlantic to profitably raise short term funds for longer term investment as the interest rate spread between short term and long term maturities is negligible. The future pattern of interest rates, including the relationship between short term and long term rates, will determine our ability to improve net interest income. 15 Table of Contents BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative has resulted in higher operating expenses, which has had an adverse impact on our earnings. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative and its associated expanded operations have required it to provide additional management resources, hire additional personnel, increase compensation, occupancy and marketing expenditures and take steps to enhance and expand its operational and management information systems. Employee compensation, occupancy and advertising expenses have significantly increased since the inception, during 2002, of the initiative from $78.9 million during 2001 to $182.0 million during 2005 and $238.0 million during 2006. Additionally, BankAtlantic has renovated the interior of most of its existing stores and has committed to a program to expand its store network. During the two years ended December 31, 2006, BankAtlantic opened 17 new stores and anticipates accelerating the pace of store openings in future periods. As a result of these growth initiatives, BankAtlantic has incurred and will continue to incur increased operating expenses, which occur in advance of any anticipated benefit resulting from these expenses. In the event that the “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative does not produce the results anticipated, BankAtlantic’s increased operating expenses will not be adequately offset by the benefits of the initiative and our earnings will continue to be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our growth initiatives do not produce results which justify these increases in operating expenses, we may be forced to reduce expenses which could result in additional charges and costs. Further, while management is currently undertaking a review of all non-interest expenses, including marketing expenses which increased significantly in 2006 with a view of reducing expenses not directly associated with new stores or customer service. There is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in its efforts to reduce expenses. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate lending. The national real estate market is showing signs of a slow down, particularly in areas that have seen significant growth, including Florida and California. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (virtually all of which are located in Florida), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (Florida). We have exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration in what many believe is a softening real estate sector. Included in the commercial real estate loans are approximately $389 million of land development loans, which are susceptible to extended maturities or borrower default due to a slow-down in Florida construction activity, and $95.1 million of development loans for low and mid-rise condominium projects in Florida, where there is an increasing supply of new construction in the face of falling demand. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts. BankAtlantic’s core deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in core deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Additionally, any future changes in banking regulations may impact this revenue source. Any of such changes could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio subjects it to high levels of credit risk. BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, BankAtlantic establishes policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic attempts to manage credit exposure to individual borrowers and counter-parties on an aggregate basis including loans, securities, letters of credit, derivatives and unfunded commitments. Credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party. Credit limits are subject to varying levels of approval by senior line and credit risk managers. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with other lenders to limit its credit risk. The majority of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.2 billion of loans secured by residential real estate and $1.4 billion of commercial real estate, construction and 16 Table of Contents development loans at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate, construction and development loans, which are concentrated mainly in Florida, represented approximately 37.6% of its loan portfolio. The real estate market in Florida is currently exhibiting signs of weakness. If real estate values in Florida were to decline, the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and its earnings could be adversely impacted. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general and/or regional economic conditions, governmental rules and policies and natural disasters such as hurricanes. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes large lending relationships, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $30 million. These relationships represented an aggregate outstanding balance of $532 million as of December 31, 2006. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans exposes it to greater credit risks. Approximately 50% of our residential loan portfolio consists of interest-only loans. These loans have reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal amount commence. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. It is anticipated that it will be difficult for borrowers to refinance residential loans in markets where real estate values have declined. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic evaluates the collectibility of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. BankAtlantic may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. In addition, BankAtlantic’s regulators may require it to increase or decrease its allowance for loan losses even if BankAtlantic thinks such change is unjustified. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, and any economic downturn in Florida or adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Florida, adverse changes in laws or regulations in Florida or natural disasters could impact the credit 17 Table of Contents quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, growth, the level of deposits our customers maintain with BankAtlantic, the success of BankAtlantic’s customers’ business activities, and the ability of BankAtlantic to expand its business. Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. A risk of doing business in the banking industry is that a failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments, depending upon the type of violation and various other factors. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. BankAtlantic has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice and a Cease and Desist Order with the OTS regarding its compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, anti-money laundering laws and the Bank Secrecy Act. In April 2006, BankAtlantic entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice relating to past deficiencies in BankAtlantic’s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws. Under the Department of Justice agreement, BankAtlantic agreed to the filing of one-count information charging it with failing to establish an adequate anti-money laundering compliance program in accordance with the Bank Secrecy Act. BankAtlantic simultaneously entered into a cease and desist order with the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) and a consent agreement with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) relating to deficiencies in its compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act. The Department of Justice has agreed to take no further action against BankAtlantic in connection with this matter, the court will dismiss the information, and the deferred prosecution agreement will expire if BankAtlantic complies with the obligations under the deferred prosecution agreement for a period of twelve months. While BankAtlantic believes that it has appropriate policies and procedures in place to maintain full compliance with the terms of the Department of Justice agreement and the OTS order, compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act is inherently difficult and there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will remain in full compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act or the terms of the Department of Justice agreement or the OTS order. If the federal agencies deem BankAtlantic not in compliance with its obligations under the deferred prosecution agreement or the cease and desist order BankAtlantic may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to proceed with certain aspects of its business plan, including its store expansion and other acquisition plans, and its ability to pay dividends, could be adversely affected by a cease and desist order or any other actions taken by regulators or other federal agencies. Parent Company We are controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its control position may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2006, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 15%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 55% of the Company’s total voting power. Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. BFC is in a position to control the Company and elect the Company’s Board of Directors. As a consequence, BFC has the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to service its debt and pay dividends depends on dividends from BankAtlantic, which are subject to regulatory limits. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and it depends upon dividends from BankAtlantic for a significant portion of its cash flow. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to service its debt and pay dividends is further subject to restrictions under its indentures and loan covenants. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to the regulatory authority of the OTS and the FDIC. BankAtlantic’s ability to make capital distributions is subject to regulatory limitations. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current 18 Table of Contents calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. BankAtlantic’s ability to make such distributions depends on maintaining eligibility for “expedited treatment.” BankAtlantic currently qualifies for expedited treatment, but there can be no assurance that it will maintain its current status. Additionally, although no prior OTS approval may be necessary, BankAtlantic is required to give the OTS thirty (30) days notice before making any capital distribution to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The OTS may object to any capital distribution if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. Additional capital distributions above the limit for an expedited treatment institution are possible but require the prior approval of the OTS. The OTS is not likely to approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail to meet its capital requirements on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. The FDIC has backup authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a capital distribution by BankAtlantic constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has cleared the distribution. At December 31, 2006, BankAtlantic had approximately $263.3 million of indebtedness outstanding at the holding company level with maturities in 2032 and 2033. The aggregate annual interest expense on this indebtedness is approximately $21.1 million. During 2006, BankAtlantic Bancorp received $20 million of dividends from BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results would be adversely affected if the amounts needed to satisfy its debt obligations, including any additional indebtedness incurred in the future, exceeded the amount of dividends it receives from its subsidiaries. Our activities and our subsidiary’s activities are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to us; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit our activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • impose capital requirements on us. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company we are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may in the future impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations including our ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” Our portfolio of equity securities subjects us to equity pricing risks. We maintain a portfolio of publicly traded and privately held equity securities that subject us to equity pricing risks arising in connection with changes in the relative values due to changing market and economic conditions. Volatility or a decline in the financial markets can negatively impact our net income as a result of devaluation of these investments. At December 31, 2006 we had equity securities with a book value of approximately $82 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Additionally, in connection with the merger of Ryan Beck with Stifel in February 2007, we received approximately 2,375,000 shares of Stifel common stock, cash consideration of $1.9 million and we anticipate receiving warrants to acquire approximately 480,000 shares of Stifel common stock upon Stifel shareholder approval. Stifel had approximately 12,400,000 shares of common stock outstanding at the acquisition date, excluding the shares of common stock issued to us at the closing of the Ryan Beck acquisition. In addition to limitations imposed by federal securities laws, we are subject to contractual restrictions which limit the number of Stifel shares that we are permitted to sell during the 18 month period following the merger. Even after these restrictions lapse, the trading market for Stifel shares may not be liquid enough to permit us to sell Stifel common stock that we own without significantly reducing the market price of these shares, if we are able to sell them at all. The repayment of our subordinated debentures is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 