ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The transaction between BB&T and the Parent Company may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all. On November 1, 2011, the Parent Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with BB&T, which was amended on March 13, 2012 (which is referred to within the following risk factors as the “Agreement”), which provides for the sale to BB&T of all of the shares of capital stock of BankAtlantic. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and the receipt of the regulatory approvals described below, which may not be timely received or may impose conditions unacceptable to the parties. In connection with obtaining the required regulatory approvals to complete the transaction, BankAtlantic submitted notices to and filings with the OCC, and the Parent Company submitted information to and made filings with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Branch Banking and Trust Company, a subsidiary of BB&T, submitted an application to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), and the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner Banks and BB&T filed an application with the Federal Reserve and presented the transaction for approval by the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Cease and Desist Orders, BankAtlantic and the Parent Company submitted requests to the OCC and Federal Reserve, respectively, to take certain actions to facilitate the transaction. With the exception of the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks, which approved the transaction on March 14, 2012, each of these notices, filings, applications, forms and requests were submitted during December 2011 and were updated as a result of the March 13, 2012 amendment to the Agreement, and are currently under review by the applicable regulatory agency. These regulatory agencies may not grant any required approvals or waivers on a timely basis, or at all. If closing of the transaction is delayed beyond July 31, 2012, either party may cancel the Agreement. Further, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Parent Company is, in connection with the closing, required to fund amounts necessary to pay the outstanding accrued interest on the Company’s trust preferred securities through closing and pays escrow funds for legal fees and expenses of the trustees in connection with the declared defaults and in the Delaware Court of Chancery action and may be required to pay amounts to BB&T depending on the non-CD deposit balances and the shareholders’ equity of BankAtlantic at the closing. If the closing had occurred on December 31, 2011, we would have been required to pay $41.6 million of deferred interest to the holders of the Parent Company’s trust preferred securities. We may not have available liquidity to make such payments and may need to raise funds through equity or debt financings which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. While the consummation of the transaction is anticipated to significantly improve the stockholders’ equity of the Parent Company, the net book value of the assets to be retained by the Parent Company as part of the transaction, including the assets to be retained by the LLC in which we will hold a 5% preferred interest, and all of the residual interests, are subject to impairment, and may not in the future be monetized at the values ascribed to them. The proposed sale of BankAtlantic may create uncertainty, which may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. If the transaction is not consummated as expected, the Company will again review all strategic alternatives available to it, including a sale of the Company, a sale of BankAtlantic, a sale of its assets and/or the issuance of equity and/or debt securities. These alternatives may not be available on attractive terms or at all. The deferral period on the Company’s outstanding TruPs will end between December 2013 and January 2014, and all accrued interest will be due and payable during the first and second quarters of 2014. If the Company continues to defer interest through December 31, 2013, as anticipated if the transaction is not consummated, the payment due at that time will be approximately $74.4 million based on average interest rates as of December 31, 2011. This amount significantly exceeds the Company’s current market capitalization and, accordingly, any issuance of equity securities is likely to significantly dilute the Company’s shareholders to the extent they do not participate in such offering. Any failure to meet its obligations when due would have a material adverse affect on the Parent Company’s financial condition, results and continuing operations. Further, in the event that the transaction is not consummated, the Parent Company will remain regulated by the Federal Reserve and subject to the Cease and Desist Order described below which requires the Parent Company to enhance its capital and the capital of BankAtlantic. See the risk factor captioned, “Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in further regulatory action and/or fines and efforts to comply with the Orders could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations” below for further information regarding the Cease and Desist Orders to which BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic are currently subject. 27 Table of Contents If we complete the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T, our business and operations will change and our financial condition and results of operations will depend on whether the assets to be retained by us in connection with the sale transaction are monetized at or near their current book values. Under the terms of the Agreement with BB&T, BankAtlantic Bancorp will sell BankAtlantic to BB&T, and in connection with the sale, BankAtlantic will distribute to BankAtlantic Bancorp a subsidiary into which BankAtlantic will contribute approximately $175 million in commercial real estate non-accrual loans and real estate owned (based on book values gross of any reserves at January 31, 2012) as well as all rights, claims and judgments relating to previously written off assets (the “Retained Assets”). BankAtlantic Bancorp will also receive in connection with the sale a 5% preferred interest and 100% of the residual interest in another subsidiary (“Newco LLC”) into which BankAtlantic will contribute approximately $424 million of loans and $17 million of real estate owned (based on book values gross of any reserves at January 31, 2012). BB&T will hold the remaining 95% preferred interest in Newco LLC until such time as it has received cash distributions of $285 million plus a priority return of LIBOR plus 2.0% per annum. Following completion of the sale transaction, we expect to focus our operations on managing the Retained Assets and on servicing approximately $73 million of commercial nonaccrual loans to be held by Newco LLC and the assets held by our wholly owned asset workout subsidiary. Our activities in this regard may include renewing, modifying, increasing, extending, refinancing and making protective advances with respect to the assets and participating in the management of real estate development activities. Additionally, based on the timing and volume of cash flows generated in connection with our management of these assets and our interests in Newco LLC, we may in the near-term make short term investments, and over time make investments and engage in various specialty finance activities. Accordingly, our business and operations will differ significantly from our current business and operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the near term, in large part, on our ability to successfully manage and monetize the Retained Assets, the assets currently held in the asset workout subsidiary and the assets in Newco LLC which we have been engaged to service as well as on the cash flow we receive based on our interest in Newco LLC. Further, our financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the longer term on these factors as well as our ability to invest these cash flows and to operate a specialty finance business. If the Retained Assets and the assets contained in Newco LLC are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and our ability to successfully pursue a specialty finance business could be adversely affected. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in further regulatory action and/or fines and efforts to comply with the Orders could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On February 23, 2011, the Parent Company entered into a Cease and Desist Order with its primary regulator (the “Company Order”), and BankAtlantic entered into a Cease and Desist Order with its primary regulator (the “Bank Order” and, collectively with the Company Order, the “Orders”). Any material failure by the Parent Company or BankAtlantic to comply with the terms of the Orders could result in additional enforcement actions and/or the imposition of fines. For example, if BankAtlantic does not meet the capital ratio requirements in the Bank Order, BankAtlantic would be required to submit a contingency plan that is acceptable to its regulators and that would detail steps to be taken by BankAtlantic that would lead to a potential sale of BankAtlantic or liquidation. Further, failure to maintain minimum regulatory capital levels could result in further action, which could include the imposition of fines and/or additional enforcement actions. Enforcement actions broadly available to regulators include the issuance of a capital directive, removal of officers and/or directors, institution of proceedings for receivership or conservatorship, and termination of deposit insurance. BankAtlantic would be required to implement the contingency plan upon written notification from its regulators. Further, efforts to comply with the Orders may have material adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company. 28 Table of Contents While the Parent Company has entered into the Agreement to sell BankAtlantic to BB&T and it is expected that the Company Order will be terminated by the Federal Reserve soon after or upon consummation of the transaction, the transaction may not be consummated, in which case the Parent Company would remain subject to the Company Order. Our recent financial performance and actions by our regulators, combined with continued capital and credit market volatility, may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company incurred losses of $28.7 million, $143.3 million and $185.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. As part of its efforts to maintain regulatory capital ratios, BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings. However, the reduction of earning asset balances has resulted in reduced income, while at the same time BankAtlantic has experienced significant credit losses. The Parent Company contributed $20 million, $28 million and $105 million to the capital of BankAtlantic during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the Parent Company had $2.5 million of liquid assets. While a wholly-owned work-out subsidiary of the Parent Company also holds a portfolio of approximately $7.3 million of non-performing loans, net of reserves, $2.4 million of performing loans and $9.1 million of real estate owned, in each case as of December 31, 2011, which it could seek to liquidate, the Parent Company’s sources of funds to continue to support BankAtlantic are limited. The Parent Company’s ability to contribute additional capital to BankAtlantic will depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to liquidate its portfolio of non-performing loans and real estate owned. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The entry into the Orders may also make it more difficult to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The Parent Company may not be able to provide additional capital, as needed, to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic may not be able to raise needed capital directly. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to meet the higher capital requirements under the Bank Order would cause BankAtlantic to fail to comply with the Bank Order and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. In light of the need for the Parent Company to be in a position to provide capital to BankAtlantic, as well as the anticipated imposition of capital requirements on thrift holding companies under the Dodd-Frank Act, in the event that the BB&T transaction is not consummated, the Parent Company will continue to evaluate raising additional funds through the issuance of securities. Any such financing could be obtained through additional public offerings, private offerings, in privately negotiated transactions, through a rights offering or otherwise. We could also pursue these financings at the Parent Company level or directly at BankAtlantic or both. Issuances of equity directly at BankAtlantic would dilute the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. During February 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering up to $75 million of our Class A Common Stock and/or other securities in the future. We currently have $44 million remaining on this shelf registration statement. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. The terms and pricing of any future transaction by the Parent Company or BankAtlantic could result in additional substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. As a result, our shareholders bear the risks of future offerings at the Parent Company level reducing the price of our Class A Common Stock, and diluting their holdings in the Company, and future offerings directly at BankAtlantic diluting the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. Additionally, depending on the amount of shares issued in any future offering, the Company’s ability to use its net operating losses to reduce taxable income in future periods may be substantially limited. 29 Table of Contents The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the decline in median home prices in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in substantial non-performing assets and provision for loan losses at BankAtlantic over the past three years. The housing industry has been in a prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in an over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted over the past three years as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further in Florida. At December 31, 2011, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $265.4 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market have deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2011, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $1.6 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 66% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential loan portfolio has exposure to further declines in the Florida real estate market. As of December 31, 2011 commercial residential loans totaled $105.1 million. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Parent Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2011 was $8.1 million, including $3.7 million of commercial residential loans. Market conditions have resulted in, and may in the future result in, our commercial residential real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period. Additionally, if the economic environment deteriorates further, collateral values may decline further which likely would result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial real estate loan portfolio are approximately $512.3 million of commercial non-residential and commercial land loans. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial land loans is dependent on the success of the real estate project. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial non-residential loans is dependent upon maintaining tenants through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in real estate market conditions and BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes 8 large lending relationships totaling $211.4 million, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $20 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. 30 Table of Contents The Parent Company has deferred interest on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures and anticipates that it will continue to defer this interest for the foreseeable future, which could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Parent Company began deferring interest on all of its $294 million of junior subordinated debentures as of March 2009 which resulted in the deferral and accrual of an aggregate of $42.9 million of regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments that would otherwise have been paid during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures allow the Parent Company to defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods, and the Parent Company anticipates that it will continue to defer such interest for the foreseeable future. During the deferral period, interest continues to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures, as well as on the deferred interest, at the relevant stated coupon rate, and at the end of the deferral period, the Parent Company will be required to pay all interest accrued during the deferral period. In the event that the Parent Company elects to defer interest on its junior subordinated debentures for the full 20 consecutive quarterly periods permitted under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures, the Parent Company would owe approximately $74.4 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2013 (based on average interest rates applicable at December 31, 2011, which were at historically low interest rate levels). As most of the outstanding junior subordinated debentures bear interest at rates that are indexed to LIBOR, if LIBOR rates increase, the interest that would accrue during the deferral period would be significantly higher and likewise increase the amount the Parent Company would owe at the conclusion of the deferral period. While BB&T has agreed to assume BankAtlantic Bancorp’s obligations under the trust preferred securities, under the terms of the Agreement relating to the proposed sale of BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp has agreed to pay all previously deferred interest payments and accrued interest through the closing of the transaction, which was approximately $41.6 million as of December 31, 2011. BankAtlantic obtained a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts, and recent legislation designed to limit service charges has reduced our fee income. Historically, BankAtlantic generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income historically was overdraft fees. Changes in banking regulations, in particular the Federal Reserve’s rules prohibiting banks from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, which became effective July 1, 2010, as well as changes in BankAtlantic’s overdraft policies have contributed to a significant reduction in our service charge income during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 and this impact is expected to continue in subsequent periods. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act may further limit the assessment of overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior, modification of our service charge practices as well as increased competition from other financial institutions has also resulted in declines in service charge income. The reduction in deposit account fee income during 2011 had an adverse impact on our earnings and further reductions during 2012 would likewise impact our earnings. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. Currently, we believe the key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to the thrift supervisory structure, including the elimination of the OTS and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions to the OCC and of thrift holding companies to the Federal Reserve ; • changes to regulatory capital requirements at the holding company level; • creation of new government regulatory agencies; • limitations on federal preemption; • limitations on debit card interchange fees; • changes in insured depository institution regulations; and • mortgage loan origination and risk retention. 31 Table of Contents Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Deposit insurance premium assessments may increase substantially, which would adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $9.6 million. BankAtlantic’s prepaid insurance assessment was $12.7 million at December 31, 2011. If the FDIC determines that increased premiums are necessary, BankAtlantic may be required to pay additional FDIC specific assessments or incur increased annual insurance rates which would increase our expenses and adversely impact our results. The Parent Company and BankAtlantic are each subject to significant regulation and the Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Parent Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and currently has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. However, we may be prevented from engaging in activities, or limited with respect to certain activities, if it is determined that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company, we have not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, it is anticipated that capital requirements will be imposed on savings and loan holding companies in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act may, among other things, eliminate the status of a “savings and loan holding company” and require us to register as a bank holding company, which would subject us to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the regulatory bodies having authority over us may adopt regulations in the future that would affect our operations, including our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic’s management evaluates the collectability of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; 32 Table of Contents • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if BankAtlantic perceives adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses was $129.1 million which represented approximately 5.02% of total loans and 38% of non-performing loans. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $375.5 million of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio consisted of interest-only loans, representing approximately 40% of the total purchased residential loan portfolio. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, these loans have reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately $49 million of the loans in this portfolio will begin principal amortization. Monthly loan payments also increase if interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increases our exposure to loss. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s non-performing loans totaled $345.3 million and $385.5 million, or 13% and 12% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate) were $436 million and $464 million, or 12% and 10% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company had approximately $34 million and $38 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and real estate market conditions improve, particularly in Florida but also nationally, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans and non-performing assets. We record interest income on non-performing loans on a cash basis and generally incur operating losses associated with real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us, which often results in an additional loss. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans and non-performing assets impact our regulators’ view of appropriate capital levels, which was a major contributing factor to the imposition of the Orders. Our regulators will likely require us to maintain enhanced capital levels until, at a minimum, our levels of non-performing loans and assets are substantially reduced. While we seek to manage our nonperforming assets, decreases in the value of these assets or deterioration in our borrowers’ financial condition, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of management time. 33 Table of Contents BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its branch network. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida over the past several years has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio. Approximately 74% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices fall, BankAtlantic may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in a decrease in interest income relative to interest expense and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, BankAtlantic may not be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. 34 Table of Contents In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to assist it in its efforts to quantify BankAtlantic’s interest rate risk. The model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, management’s efforts may not be successful. BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans are funded by its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets are primarily funded through its customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings, which may not be available in sufficient amounts, or liquidate a portion of its assets, which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. For a further discussion on liquidity, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” BankAtlantic has significantly reduced operating expenses over the past three years and BankAtlantic may not be able to continue to reduce expenses without adversely impacting its operations. BankAtlantic’s operating expenses have declined from $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 to $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. BankAtlantic reorganized its operations during this period and significantly reduced operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and seeking to maintain quality customer service. BankAtlantic may not be successful in efforts to further reduce expenses or to maintain its current expense structure. BankAtlantic’s inability to reduce or maintain its current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. Prior to 2009, the Parent Company relied on dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt and pay dividends, but no dividends from BankAtlantic are anticipated or contemplated for the foreseeable future. BankAtlantic has not paid a dividend to the Parent Company since September 2008, and the Bank Order prohibits BankAtlantic from paying dividends to the Parent Company without the prior written non-objection of the OCC. As such, BankAtlantic does not intend to pay dividends to the Parent Company for the foreseeable future. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. The Parent Company, BankAtlantic and their subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings which have resulted in significant non-interest expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include class action securities litigation, litigation which has been brought by the SEC, the Orders, litigation arising out of our banking operations including workouts and foreclosures, potential class actions by customers relating to service and overdraft fees assessed to their accounts, and legal proceedings associated with our tax certificate business and relationships with third party tax certificate ventures. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a further discussion regarding the legal proceedings to which the Company is currently subject. 35 Table of Contents Further reductions in BankAtlantic’s assets may adversely affect our earnings and/or operations. BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings in order to improve its liquidity and regulatory capital ratios. The reduction of earning asset balances has reduced our net interest income. Our net interest income was $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $125.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The reduction in net interest income from earning asset reductions has previously been offset in part by lower operating expenses in prior periods. Our ability to further reduce expenses without adversely affecting our operations may be limited and as a result, further reductions in our earning asset balances in future periods may adversely affect earnings and/or operations. Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may experience and may continue to be impacted by the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may adversely impact our ability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs, decrease fee income and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to competitively market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Continued asset valuation declines could further increase our credit losses and result in additional impairments of goodwill and other assets. 36 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic reviews the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party; however, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. In addition, when deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we often rely on information furnished to us by such customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, and representations of the customers and counterparties that relates to the accuracy and completeness of the information. While we take all actions we deem necessary to ensure the accuracy of the information provided to us, all the information provided to us may not be accurate or we may not successfully identify all information needed to fully assess the risk which may expose us to increased credit risk and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will continue to be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan, as well as not being in a position to make independent determinations with respect to its interest. Further, the majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in its asset workout subsidiary. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its branches, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its consumer home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than on similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC owns shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 75% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s class A and class B common stock representing approximately 71% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A Common Stock and class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. 37 Table of Contents BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by our Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B Common Stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A Common Stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A Common Stock from the NYSE. The Company’s Class A Common Stock currently trades on the NYSE. Like many other companies involved in the financial services industry over the last several years, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock has experienced a substantial decline. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or, with respect to listed companies with shareholders equity of less than $50 million, the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $50 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. The NYSE’s market capitalization and equity requirements are based on the Company’s publicly traded stock at the holding company level. 38 Table of Contents On April 6, 2011, the Company was notified that its Class A Common Stock did not satisfy one minimum share price standard because, as of March 31, 2011, the average closing price per share of the Company’s Class A Common Stock over the preceding 30 trading day period was $0.98. Under the rules of the NYSE, the Company had a six month period to cure the deficiency, which was accomplished as a result of the one-for-five reverse stock split affected by the Company during October 2011. On October 21, 2011, the Company received notification that it was below the NYSE’s continued listing criteria because, as of October 14, 2011, the Company’s average market capitalization for the preceding 30-day trading period was $48.9 million. In accordance with the NYSE’s rules, the Company submitted a business plan to the NYSE in which it advised the NYSE of the actions it has taken or expects to take in order to comply with the NYSE’s continued listing standards within 18 months. The Company’s Class A Common Stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE during this period, subject to the NYSE’s acceptance of the business plan, and the Company’s compliance with the business plan and the other continued listing standards of the NYSE. If the Company does not timely regain compliance with the NYSE’s average market capitalization standard and otherwise meet and continue to comply with the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A Common Stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A Common Stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, in such event, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which could materially and adversely impact the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. We also face increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. In addition, our recent losses, reductions in force and other efforts to achieve operating efficiencies as well as the concerns about the transaction to sell BankAtlantic to BB&T and the instability of financial institutions in general may make it more difficult to retain key personnel. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract new employees as needed. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Alan Levan. While the Company believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. In the event Mr. Alan Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of the Company, the Company and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of service of other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director of the Company and Vice Chairman of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 39 Table of Contents 