ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing market and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficult conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets are not expected to improve in the foreseeable future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all 19 Table of Contents from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies, may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Consumer confidence in the financial industry has weakened and individual wealth has deteriorated, which could lead to declines in deposits and impact liquidity. • Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact our credit losses and result in additional goodwill and other asset impairments. There can be no assurance that recent steps taken by Congress, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (the “EESA”). The legislation was in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Department of Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury has made senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, pursuant to which, under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (the “FDA”), the FDIC has offered a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium payment made to the FDIC by the participating financial institution. On February 10, 2009, the Treasury announced a new comprehensive financial stability plan (the “Financial Stability Plan”), which earmarked the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in the CPP. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA, the Financial Stability Plan and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector and other programs being developed. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these government initiatives will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of market volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these government initiatives to stabilize the financial markets, or a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions, could materially 20 Table of Contents and adversely affect BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit. Any such failure may also adversely impact the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock. In addition, the EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition or results of operations. As previously announced, the Company and BankAtlantic filed an application to participate in the CPP. The United States Treasury had not, as of March 16, 2009, acted on the application and such application may not be approved. Further, the Company’s decision to defer quarterly payment of interest on its outstanding trust preferred junior subordinated debentures may adversely impact our application to receive funds under the CPP. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the EESA and its implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. Our industry may be subject to increased regulation, and compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, if we participate in the CPP, our ability to make dividend payments or to repurchase our common stock will be limited and subject to the restrictions contained in that program for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, may have an adverse effect on us and we anticipate that the cost of FDIC premiums will increase. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The continued deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the continued decline in home sales and median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the recent downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in a substantial increase in non-performing assets and BankAtlantic’s provision for loan losses. The housing industry is in the midst of a substantial and prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the deteriorating condition of the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted during 2008 as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further. At December 31, 2008, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $208.1 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate lending which makes us more susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. The national real estate market declined significantly during 2007 and 2008, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (virtually all of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2008 BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.7 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 60% of its loan portfolio. 21 Table of Contents We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential development loan portfolio has significant exposure to further declines in the Florida residential real estate market. The “builder land bank loan” category consists of 7 loans and aggregates $62.4 million of which four loans totaling $40.4 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2008. The “land acquisition and development loan” category consists of 25 loans and aggregates $165.8 million of which three loans totaling $33.2 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2008. The “land acquisition, development and construction loan” category consists of 14 loans and aggregates $75.5 million of which three loans totaling $18.5 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2008. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial and commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2008 was $79.3 million with $22.0 million, $16.8 million and $29.2 million of “builder land bank loans”, “land acquisition and development loans”, and “land acquisition, development and construction loans, respectively. Market conditions may result in our commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time or deteriorates further, collateral values may even further decline and are likely to result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial real estate loans are approximately $225 million of commercial non-residential construction loans. These loans could be susceptible to extended maturities or borrower default, and BankAtlantic could experience higher credit losses and non-performing loans in this portfolio if the economy remains at depressed levels particularly in Florida or if commercial non-residential real estate market values further decline. BankAtlantic’s commercial non-residential loan portfolio includes loans collateralized by income producing properties such as retail shopping centers, warehouses, and office buildings. The current recession has negatively impacted the cash flow generated from these rental properties which in turn impacts the borrowers’ ability to fund the debt service on their loans. If market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further, BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes large lending relationships, including 5 relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $30 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its store network. The decline in residential real estate prices and residential home sales throughout Florida has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve in the near term. Approximately 80% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages and BankAtlantic experienced heighted delinquencies and credit losses in this portfolio during 2008. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices continue to fall, BankAtlantic may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio primarily consists of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property 22 Table of Contents BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. While they have performed satisfactorily to date, approximately 50% of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio (approximately $980 million) consists of interest-only loans. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, they are loans with reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increases our exposure to loss. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic evaluates the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the incurred losses in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. BankAtlantic may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. Increases in the allowance for loan losses with respect to the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary, or losses in that portfolio which exceed the current allowance assigned to that portfolio, would similarly adversely affect us. Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan 23 Table of Contents commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic attempts to manage credit exposure to individual borrowers and counter-parties on an aggregate basis including loans, securities, letters of credit, derivatives and unfunded commitments. While credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan and will not be in a position to make independent determinations in its sole discretion with respect to its interests. The majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in our asset workout subsidiary. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as unemployment, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market are more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, we cannot provide assurances that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. 24 Table of Contents Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to quantify its interest rate risk, in support of its Asset/Liability Committee. This model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans exceed its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets exceed customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings or liquidate a portion of its assets which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that BankAtlantic will not have funds to meet its obligations. For a further discussion on liquidity refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative and related infrastructure expansion to support a larger organization has resulted in higher operating expenses, which has had an adverse impact on our earnings. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative, the opening of 32 stores from January 2005 to August 2008 and the related expansion of our infrastructure and operations have required us to provide additional management resources, hire additional personnel, increase compensation, occupancy and marketing expenditures, and take steps to enhance and expand our operational and management information systems. The new stores are located throughout Florida and represent a 51% increase, based on the number of stores, in BankAtlantic’s retail network. Employee compensation, occupancy and equipment and advertising expenses have significantly increased since the inception of the initiative, during 2002, from $78.9 million during 2001 to $212.9 million during 2008. The current economic recession has impacted the length of time required for these new stores to achieve profitability. As a consequence, BankAtlantic is currently reorganizing its operations in an attempt to improve its performance by significantly reducing operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and maintaining quality customer service. As part of this strategy, since 2007, BankAtlantic has slowed its network expansions and reduced its services hours and, in 2008, BankAtlantic sold five of its branches 25 Table of Contents located in Orlando to an independent financial institution. While management is focused on reducing overall expenses, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in efforts to significantly reduce these expenses and the continuation of the current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts. BankAtlantic’s deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Also, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in the inability to collect overdraft fees and a corresponding increase in our overdraft fee reserves. Additionally, future changes in banking regulations, in particular limitations on retail customer fees, may impact this revenue source. Any of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results. Deposit premium insurance assessments may increase substantially, which will adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $2.8 million. We expect, however, that BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance assessments will significantly increase in 2009 due to the recent experience of the FDIC deposit insurance fund relating to recent bank failures and the stress on the system. While the amount of the increase is uncertain, any increase in the FDIC deposit insurance will increase BankAtlantic’s expenses, thereby adversely impacting our results. Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. Failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. Changes in the regulation or capital requirements associated with holding companies generally or BankAtlantic Bancorp in particular could also have an adverse impact. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. In light of the current challenging economic environment, the Company is considering raising funds to be in a position to provide additional capital to BankAtlantic, if needed. Additionally, the OTS could impose capital requirements on the Company or could impose additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may make it more difficult or more costly to obtain financing. There is no assurance that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The terms and pricing of any transaction by the Company or BankAtlantic could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could adversely impact the price of our Class A common stock. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for issuers without regard 26 Table of Contents to the issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A common stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A common stock from the New York Stock Exchange. The Company’s Class A common stock currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Like other companies involved in the financial services industry, the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock has recently experienced a substantial decline. Previously, a listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $25 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. As a result of the ongoing turmoil in the economy generally, the New York Stock Exchange has modified its continued listing standards to suspend, until June 30, 2009, the $1.00 minimum price requirement and to lower, until June 30, 2009, the average market capitalization requirement from $25 million to $15 million. If the Company does not meet the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A common stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A common stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A common stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which, in the event additional capital is required to operate our business, could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp services its debt and pays dividends primarily from dividends from BankAtlantic, which are subject to regulatory limits. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and dividends from BankAtlantic represent a significant portion of its cash flows. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulatory limitations and the authority of the OTS and the FDIC. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. However, at December 31, 2008, BankAtlantic had a retained net deficit and therefore is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. Due to BankAtlantic’s recent net losses, BankAtlantic suspended dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp in December 2008. In addition, if BankAtlantic participates in the CPP, its ability to pay dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp in the future will be subject to the restrictions contained in that program. In February 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp notified the trustees under its trust preferred junior subordinated debentures that it was electing to defer quarterly interest payments, which it has the right to do without default or penalty for up to twenty consecutive quarters. During the deferral period, the Company is not permitted to pay dividends on its common stock. Not withstanding the deferral, BankAtlantic Bancorp will continue to recognize a liability for the interest accrued and will be required to accrue interest on the deferred interest. At December 31, 2008, BankAtlantic Bancorp had approximately $294.2 million of indebtedness outstanding under the trust preferred junior subordinated debentures at the holding company level with maturities ranging from 2032 through 2037. The aggregate annual interest payments on this indebtedness were approximately $18 million based on interest rates at December 31, 2008 and is generally indexed to three-month LIBOR. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition would 27 Table of Contents be adversely affected if interest payments were deferred for a prolonged time period. For a further discussion refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2008, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 2,389,697 shares, or approximately 23.3%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 58% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B common stock representing approximately 73.8% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. The Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent the Company from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to the Company; • limit transactions between the Company, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the Company’s activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • Impose capital requirements on the Company or additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company the Company has not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect the Company’s operations, including the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision – Holding Company.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Table of Contents 