ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred significant losses during the last three years, and if we continue to incur significant losses we will need to raise additional capital, which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all. BankAtlantic Bancorp has incurred losses of $22.2 million, $202.6 million and $185.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, respectively. As part of its efforts to maintain regulatory capital ratios, BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings. However, the reduction of earning asset balances has resulted in reduced income while at the same time BankAtlantic has experienced significant credit losses. BankAtlantic Bancorp contributed $65 million and $105 million to the capital of BankAtlantic during the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp had $14 million of liquid assets. While a wholly-owned work-out subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp also holds a portfolio of approximately $31.3 million of nonperforming loans, net of reserves, $3.1 million of performing loans and $10.5 million of real estate owned which it could seek to liquidate, BankAtlantic Bancorp’s sources of funds to continue to support BankAtlantic are limited. If BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic continue to experience losses and BankAtlantic’s capital ratios decline, we may become subject to regulatory actions with respect to BankAtlantic, including the requirement to raise capital, and there is no assurance that at that time BankAtlantic Bancorp would 19 Table of Contents have sufficient funds in order to provide BankAtlantic capital, or that BankAtlantic Bancorp or BankAtlantic would have access to capital or that capital would be available without significant cost or without resulting in significant dilution to the Company’s shareholders. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In light of the current challenging economic environment and the desire for the Company to be in a position to provide capital to BankAtlantic, the Company has and will continue to evaluate the advisability of raising additional funds through the issuance of securities. Any such financing could be obtained through additional public offerings, private offerings, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. We could also pursue these financings at the Company level or directly at BankAtlantic or both. Issuances of equity directly at BankAtlantic would dilute the Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. During February 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which we may issue up to $75 million of our Class A common stock and/or other securities in the future. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, our shareholders bear the risk of future offerings at the Company level reducing the price of our Class A common stock and future offerings directly at BankAtlantic diluting the Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic’s capital levels at December 31, 2009 exceeded “well capitalized” regulatory capital levels. BankAtlantic Bancorp during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 contributed $105 million and $65 million, respectively, of capital to BankAtlantic and at December 31, 2009 BankAtlantic Bancorp had $14 million of liquid assets. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to contribute additional capital to BankAtlantic will depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to liquidate its portfolio of non-performing loans. The OTS has the right to impose additional capital requirements on banks at its discretion and could impose additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may make it more difficult or more costly to obtain financing. There is no assurance that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The terms and pricing of any future transaction by the Company or BankAtlantic could result in additional substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could adversely impact the price of our Class A common stock. If BankAtlantic sustains additional operating losses or if the OTS imposes more stringent capital requirements, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to provide additional capital, if needed, in order for BankAtlantic to meet its capital requirements in future periods. BankAtlantic Bancorp has deferred interest on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures and anticipates that it will continue to defer this interest for the foreseeable future, which could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. BankAtlantic Bancorp began deferring interest on all of its $294 million of junior subordinated debentures as of March 2009 which resulted in the deferral and accrual of $14.1 million of regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments that would otherwise have been paid during the year ended December 31, 2009. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures allow BankAtlantic Bancorp to defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods, and BankAtlantic Bancorp anticipates that it will continue to defer such interest for the foreseeable future. During the deferral period, interest continues to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures, as well as on the deferred interest, at the relevant stated coupon rate, and at the end of the deferral period BankAtlantic Bancorp will be required to pay all interest accrued during the deferral period. In the event that the Company elects to defer interest on its junior subordinated debentures for the full 20 consecutive quarterly periods permitted under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures, BankAtlantic Bancorp would owe approximately $72 million of accrued 20 Table of Contents interest as of December 31, 2013 (based on average interest rates applicable at December 31, 2009, which were at historically low interest rate levels). As most of the outstanding junior subordinated debentures bear interest at rates that are indexed to LIBOR, if LIBOR rates increase, the interest that would accrue during the deferral period would be significantly higher and likewise increase the amount BankAtlantic Bancorp would owe at the conclusion of the deferral period. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s cash offers to purchase $230 million of trust preferred securities issued by statutory business trusts formed by BankAtlantic Bancorp may not be consummated. During January 2010, BankAtlantic Bancorp commenced cash offers to purchase all outstanding trust preferred securities having an aggregate principal amount of approximately $285 million at a purchase price of $200 per $1,000 liquidation amount, or an aggregate of $57 million. During February 2010, the cash offer with respect to the approximate $55 million of publicly traded trust preferred securities expired without any such trust preferred securities being repurchased, while the expiration date for the offers relating to the remaining $230 million of trust preferred securities was extended until March 22, 2010. The Company’s ability to complete the offers to purchase $230 million of the Company’s trust preferred securities is contingent upon the completion of a financing transaction sufficient to pay the purchase price, and the receipt of tenders and consents from Holders of the requisite amount of the relevant series of trusts preferred securities. The structure of the ownership of the trust preferred securities (the majority of which are held in pools with the securities of other issuers as collateral for collateralized debt obligations) has made it very difficult to communicate with the beneficial owners or negotiate the repurchase or modification of the terms of the outstanding securities. Accordingly, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic Bancorp will be able to repurchase or redeem any or a significant portion of the trust preferred securities. Further, as noted above, BankAtlantic Bancorp has deferred making interest payments on the trust preferred securities and BankAtlantic Bancorp financial condition would be adversely affected if interest payments on the trust preferred securities were deferred for a prolonged period of time. While BankAtlantic Bancorp anticipates that it will continue to defer interest payments for the foreseeable future, in the event that BankAtlantic Bancorp completes offers to purchase for less than all of its series of trust preferred securities, BankAtlantic Bancorp expects that it may cease the deferral of interest on the series of trust preferred securities which will not be repurchased prior to completing the repurchase of the other series and immediately thereafter once again commence the deferral of interest with respect to all remaining series of trust preferred securities not repurchased. Any issuance of our Class A common stock to raise funds to finance the purchase of any or all of the trust preferred securities subject to these offers could be extremely dilutive to existing shareholders. Historically, BankAtlantic Bancorp has relied on dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt and pay dividends, but no dividends from BankAtlantic are anticipated or contemplated for the foreseeable future. Generally, a financial institution is permitted to make capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to its net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that the financial institution would not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic had a retained net deficit and therefore is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic does not intend to seek to make any capital distribution for the foreseeable future. For a further discussion refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The continued deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the continued decline in median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in a substantial increase in BankAtlantic’s non-performing assets and provision for loan losses over the past three years. The housing industry is in the midst of a substantial and prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of 21 Table of Contents mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the deteriorating condition of the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted over the past three years as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further in Florida. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $263 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us very susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market have deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.5 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 62% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential loan portfolio has significant exposure to further declines in the Florida residential real estate market. The “Builder land bank loan” category held by BankAtlantic consists of 7 loans and aggregates $43.7 million of which six loans totaling $42.6 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2009. The “Land acquisition and development loan” category held by BankAtlantic consists of 27 loans and aggregates $171.9 million of which ten loans totaling $60.2 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2009. The “Land acquisition, development and construction loan” category held by BankAtlantic consists of 6 loans and aggregates $11.3 million of which one loan totaling $3.8 million was on non-accrual as of December 31, 2009. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2009 was $39.4 million with $14.1 million, $10.4 million and $14.9 million of “builder land bank loans”, “land acquisition and development loans”, and “land acquisition, development and construction loans”, respectively. Market conditions have and may in the future result in our commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current depressed economic environment continues or deteriorates further, collateral values may decline further which likely would result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial and construction and development real estate loans are approximately $638.4 million of commercial non-residential and commercial land loans. A borrowers ability to repay these loans is dependent upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to continue to rise in 2010. Increased vacancies could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in real estate market conditions and BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes 16 large lending relationships totaling $429.0 million, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $20 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse 22 Table of Contents effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its store network. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve in the near term. Approximately 76% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages and BankAtlantic experienced higher delinquencies and credit losses in this portfolio during 2009. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices continue to fall, BankAtlantic may continue to experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic’s management evaluates the collectability of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans or if BankAtlantic perceives adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Increases in the allowance for loan losses with respect to the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary, or losses in that portfolio which exceed the current allowance assigned to that portfolio, would similarly adversely affect us. 23 Table of Contents Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks as increasing unemployment, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market are more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than on similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. Approximately $776 million of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio consists of interest-only loans which represent approximately 50% of the total purchased residential loan portfolio. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, they are loans with reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increase our exposure to loss. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s consolidated nonperforming loans totaled $331.0 million and $287.4 million, or 8.96% and 6.65% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s consolidated nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans and foreclosed real estate) were $379.7 million and $307.9 million, or 7.88% and 5.30% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company had, on a consolidated basis, approximately $72.9 million and $95.3 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and real estate market conditions improve, particularly in Florida but also nationally, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets. We do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us, which often results in an additional loss. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets could impact our regulators’ view of appropriate capital levels in light of such risks. While we seek to manage our problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and other alternatives, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial conditions, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the 24 Table of Contents influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to assist it in its efforts to quantify BankAtlantic’s interest rate risk. The model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts, and recent legislation designed to limit service charges could reduce our fee income. BankAtlantic’s deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in banking regulations, in particular the Federal Reserve’s new rules prohibiting banks from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs which will become effective July 1, 2010, may have a 25 Table of Contents significant adverse impact on our service charge income and overall results. Additionally, changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Further, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in the inability to collect overdraft fees. A reduction in deposit account fee income could have an adverse impact on our earnings. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic and their subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation and legal proceedings which have resulted in a significant increase in non-interest expense relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include class action securities litigation and an SEC investigation, as well as litigation arising out of our banking operations including workouts and foreclosures, potential class actions by customers relating to their accounts and service and overdraft fees and legal proceedings associated with our tax certificate business and relationships with third party tax certificate ventures. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings and that the outcomes should not materially impact us, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. BankAtlantic has significantly reduced operating expenses over the past three years and BankAtlantic may not be able to continue to reduce expenses without adversely impacting its operations. BankAtlantic’s operating expenses have declined from $313.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $258.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. BankAtlantic reorganized its operations during this period and significantly reduced operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and seeking to maintain quality customer service. While management is focused on reducing overall expenses, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in efforts to further reduce expenses or that the current expense reductions can be maintained in the current environment. BankAtlantic’s inability to reduce or maintain its current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. Deposit insurance premium assessments may increase substantially, which would adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $11.0 million, including a $2.4 million special assessment. In September 2009, the FDIC issued a rule requiring institutions to prepay their insurance premiums for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, and increased annual insurance rates uniformly by three basis points in 2011. BankAtlantic’s prepaid insurance assessment was $31.3 million at December 31, 2009. If the economy worsens and the number of bank failures significantly increase or if the FDIC otherwise determines that action is necessary, BankAtlantic may be required to pay additional FDIC specific assessments or incur increased annual insurance rates which would increase our expenses and adversely impact our results. Further reductions in BankAtlantic’s assets may adversely affect our earnings and/or operations. BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings in order to improve its liquidity and regulatory capital ratios. The reduction of earning asset balances has reduced our net interest income. Our net interest income was $193.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The reduction in net interest income from earning asset reductions has previously been offset by lower operating expenses in prior periods. Our ability to further reduce expenses without adversely affecting our operations may be limited and as a result, further reductions in our earning asset balances in future periods, may adversely affect earnings and/or operations. 26 Table of Contents Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing market and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may continue to decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs, decrease fee income and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies, may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to competitively market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact our credit losses and result in additional impairments of goodwill and other assets. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our financial statements. During 2009, the U.S. Treasury implemented various initiatives in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. These initiatives include the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), the guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness, purchasing certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, the purchase of mortgage securitizations, homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks, the lowering of the federal funds rate, emergency action against short selling practices, a temporary guaranty program for money market funds, the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers, coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in 27 Table of Contents the banking sector and other programs being developed. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the initiatives that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will have on the financial markets. The initiatives could have a material and adverse affect on BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit. Further, recent events in the financial services industry and, more generally, in the financial markets and the economy, have led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. Earlier in 2009, legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals call for heightened scrutiny and regulation of any financial firm whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could, if it failed, pose a threat to the country’s financial stability, including the power to restrict the activities of such firms and even require the break-up of such firms at the behest of the relevant regulator. New rules have also been proposed for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization. Other recent initiatives also include: • The Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the FDIC’s proposed rules tying employee compensation to assessments for deposit insurance; • Proposals to limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home; • Proposed legislation concerning the comprehensive regulation of the “over-the-counter” derivatives market, including robust and comprehensive prudential supervision (including strict capital and margin requirements) for all “over-the-counter” derivative dealers and major market participants and central clearing of standardized “over-the-counter” derivatives; and • Proposal which would prohibit banks and bank holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading or owning, investing or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund. The proposed legislation contains several provisions that would have a direct impact on us. Under the proposed legislation, the federal savings association charter would be eliminated and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be consolidated with the Comptroller of the Currency into a new regulator, the National Bank Supervisor. The proposed legislation would also require BankAtlantic to convert to a national bank. While there can be no assurance that any or all of the proposed regulatory or legislative changes will ultimately be adopted, these changes or any future changes, if enacted or adopted, may impact our business activities, require us to change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business and operations. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the initiatives that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will have on banks or the financial markets. These government initiatives could potentially have a material and adverse affect on BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit. 28 Table of Contents The Company and BankAtlantic are each subject to significant regulation and the Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. Failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp, see “Regulations and Supervision”. Changes in the regulation or capital requirements associated with holding companies generally or BankAtlantic Bancorp in particular could also have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent the Company from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS can also: • prohibit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to the Company; • limit transactions between the Company, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the Company’s activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • Impose capital requirements on the Company or additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company the Company has not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. In addition, as noted above, the current administration has proposed legislation which would, among other things, eliminate the status of “savings and loan holding company” and require BankAtlantic Bancorp to register as a bank holding company, which would subject BankAtlantic Bancorp to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the OTS or other regulatory bodies having authority over the Company in the future may adopt regulations in the future that would affect the Company’s operations, including the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans are funded by its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets are primarily funded through its customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings or liquidate a portion of its assets which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. For a further discussion on liquidity, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic reviews the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party; however, such limits may 29 Table of Contents not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. In addition, when deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we often rely on information furnished to us by such customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, and representations of the customers and counterparties that relates to the accuracy and completeness of the information. While we take all actions we deem necessary to ensure the accuracy of the information provided to us, there is no assurance that all information provided to us will be accurate or that we will successfully identify all information needed to fully assess the risk which may expose us to increased credit risk and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will continue to be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan, as well as not being in a position to make independent determinations with respect to its interest. Further, the majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in its asset workout subsidiary. The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2009, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 17,333,428 shares, or approximately 35.9%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 66% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B common stock representing approximately 71.6% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A common stock and Class B common stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A common stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B common stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B common stock currently represents approximately 2% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B common stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of our Class A common stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B common stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B common stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 487,613 shares of our Class B common stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B common stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A common stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B common stock (after converting those shares to Class A common stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by our Class B common stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A common stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A common stock. 30 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B common stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A common stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A common stock from the New York Stock Exchange. The Company’s Class A common stock currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Like many other companies involved in the financial services industry, the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock has experienced a substantial decline. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $15 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. As of February 25, 2010, the average market price of the Company’s Class A common stock over the prior 30 trading day period was $1.41, and the Company’s average market capitalization over that period was $69.3 million. However, the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock is subject to significant volatility and there is no assurance that it will not decrease in the future so as to cause the Company not to comply with the New York Stock Exchange’s requirement for continued listing. If the Company does not meet the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A common stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A common stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, in such event, the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A common stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents 