ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS BBX Capital’s business and operations and the mix of its assets significantly changed as a result of the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T during July 2012, and its financial condition and results of operations depend on the monetization of its assets at or near their current book values and its results of operations will depend on the success of its investments. As a result of the BB&T transaction, BBX Capital’s business and operations significantly changed from its business and operations prior to the sale of BankAtlantic. As a consequence, BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent on its ability to successfully manage and monetize legacy assets and on the results of operations of Bluegreen and Bluegreen’s ability to continue to pay dividends to Woodbridge and in turn Woodbridge’s payment of dividends to BBX Capital. Further, BBX Capital’s loan portfolio and real estate may not be easily salable in the event BBX Capital decides to liquidate an asset through a sale transaction. BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the long term on the success of its investments. If the legacy assets are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, or if these assets are liquidated for amounts less than book value, BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and its ability to successfully pursue its business goals could be adversely affected. Because a majority of its assets do not generate income on a regular basis, BBX Capital does not expect to generate significant revenue or income with respect to these assets until such time as an asset is monetized through repayments or it consummates transactions involving the sale, joint venture or development of the underlying real estate or investments. Accordingly, BBX Capital expects its revenues and results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. BBX Capital’s substantial investment in Woodbridge and BBX Capital’s indirect interest in Bluegreen exposes BBX Capital to the risks associated with Bluegreen and the vacation ownership industry. As previously described, BBX Capital invested $71.75 million in Woodbridge in April 2013 in exchange for a 46% equity interest in Woodbridge. Woodbridge owns all of the shares of Bluegreen’s common stock which constitute Woodbridge’s primary asset. While Woodbridge and Bluegreen are not consolidated into BBX Capital’s financial statements, its investment in Woodbridge is significant and its operating results and financial condition, including its liquidity, is dependent in part on Bluegreen’s performance and Bluegreen’s ability to pay dividends. Bluegreen is subject to various risks and uncertainties which may impact its business and results, including, but not limited to, the following: · Bluegreen’s business and operations, including its ability to market Vacation Ownership Interests (“VOIs”), is subject to risks related to general economic conditions and the availability of financing; · The vacation ownership and hospitality industries are highly competitive, and Bluegreen may not be able to compete successfully; · Bluegreen would incur substantial losses and Bluegreen’s liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers to whom Bluegreen provides financing default on their obligations; · While Bluegreen has attempted to restructure its business to reduce its need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that Bluegreen’s business and profitability will not be impacted by its ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all; · Bluegreen's indebtedness may impact its financial condition and results of operations, and the terms of Bluegreen's indebtedness may limit its activities and its ability to pay dividends; · The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact Bluegreen’s ability to obtain, renew or extend credit facilities, or otherwise raise funds; · Bluegreen’s future success depends on its ability to market its products and services successfully and efficiently and Bluegreen’s marketing expenses may increase; · Bluegreen may not be successful in increasing or expanding its capital-light business relationships, and its capital-light activities, including fee based, sales and marketing, just-in-time VOI arrangements, and secondary market sales activities, and such activities may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition; 13 · Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if Bluegreen does not continue to participate in exchange networks and other strategic alliances with third parties or if Bluegreen’s customers are not satisfied with the networks in which Bluegreen participates or Bluegreen’s strategic alliances; · The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect Bluegreen’s business; · Bluegreen is subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including a decline in real estate values and a deterioration of other conditions relating to the real estate market and real estate development; · Adverse outcomes in legal or other regulatory proceedings, including claims for development-related defects or consumer complaints to regulatory authorities, could adversely affect Bluegreen’s financial condition and operating results; · Bluegreen may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of Bluegreen’s tax returns or those of Bluegreen’s subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on Bluegreen’s financial condition; · Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on Bluegreen’s financial condition and operating results; · A failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in damage to Bluegreen's reputation and/or subject Bluegreen to costs, fines, or lawsuits; · Bluegreen’s technology requires updating and the failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair Bluegreen's operations or competitive position; and · The loss of the services of Bluegreen’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its business. For more detailed information regarding Bluegreen’s business, the risks set forth above and other risks which Bluegreen faces, see BFC’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov, including the “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Bluegreen” section thereof. During the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the nine months ended December 31, 2013, BBX Capital received dividends totaling $76.0 million from Woodbridge following its receipt of dividends from Bluegreen. As indicated above, Bluegreen’s debt instruments contain restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. In addition, dividend payments by Bluegreen are subject to declaration by Bluegreen’s board of directors, and subsequent dividends by Woodbridge are subject to the approval of the board of directors of BFC as well as BBX Capital’s board of directors. Dividend decisions outside of BBX Capital’s control may not be made in BBX Capital’s best interest. If Bluegreen is unable to pay dividends or Bluegreen or Woodbridge does not otherwise pay dividends, BBX Capital’s liquidity would be materially and adversely impacted. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity” for additional information. BBX Capital’s future acquisitions may reduce earnings, require it to obtain additional financing and expose it to additional risks. BBX Capital’s business strategy includes investments in or acquisitions of operating companies, such as its acquisitions of Renin Corp. and the acquisitions of businesses by BBX Sweet Holdings in the candy and confections industry. Some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While BBX Capital is seeking investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth, it may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Investments or acquisitions that it completes may not prove to be successful or even if successful may not initially generate income, or may generate income on an irregular basis or over a long time period. Accordingly BBX Capital’s results of operations may vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Acquisitions may result in additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on BBX Capital’s results of operations. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: · Difficulties in integrating and assimilating acquired management and operations; · Risks associated with achieving profitability; · The incurrence of significant due diligence expenses relating to acquisitions that are not completed; · Unforeseen expenses and losses; 14 · Risks associated with entering new markets in which it has no or limited prior experience; · The potential loss of key employees or founders of acquired organizations; and · Risks associated with transferred assets and liabilities. BBX Capital may not be able to acquire or profitably manage additional businesses, or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses, including Renin and the businesses BBX Sweet Holdings acquired, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties, including difficulties in integrating information systems and personnel and establishing control environment processes across acquired businesses. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that operating businesses are acquired outside the United States or the State of Florida, there will be additional risks related to compliance with foreign regulations and laws including tax laws, labor laws, currency fluctuations and geography economic conditions. In addition, BBX Capital faces competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Further, investments or acquisitions may rely on additional debt or equity financing. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit its operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to its shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock. If BBX Capital requires additional financing in the future, the financing may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, shareholder approval will not be sought in connection with any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. Some of BBX Capital’s operations are through unconsolidated joint ventures with unaffiliated third parties and BBX Capital may be adversely impacted by a joint venture partner’s failure to fulfill its obligations. By entering into joint ventures, BBX Capital can reduce the amount invested in the ownership and development of real estate properties. However, joint venture partners may become financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreements. Most joint ventures borrow money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans is generally limited to the managing members, joint ventures and their properties, BBX Capital has in some cases and may in the future provide ongoing financial support or guarantees. If joint venture partners do not meet their obligations to the joint venture, BBX Capital may be required to make significant expenditures which may have an adverse effect on its operating results or financial condition. Investments in real estate developments directly or through joint ventures expose it to market and economic risks inherent in the real estate construction and development industry. The real estate construction and development industry is highly competitive and subject to numerous risks which in many cases are beyond management’s control. The success of BBX Capital’s investments in real estate developments is dependent on many factors, including: · Demand for or oversupply of new homes, rental apartments and commercial real estate; · Demand for commercial real estate tenants; · Real estate market values; · Changes in capitalization rates impacting real estate values; · Inventory of foreclosed homes negatively impacting selling prices; · Availability and reasonable pricing of skilled labor; · Availability and reasonable pricing of construction materials such as lumber, framing, concrete and other building materials; · Changes in laws and regulations for new construction and land entitlements, including environmental and zoning laws and regulations; · Natural disasters and severe weather conditions increasing costs, delaying construction, causing uninsured losses or reducing demand for new homes; · Availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential purchasers; 15 · Mortgage loan interest rates; · Availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; · Construction defects and product liability claims and; · General economic conditions. Any of these factors could give rise to delays in the start or completion of a project, or increase the cost of developing a project, or could result in reduced prices and values for BBX Capital’s developments, including developments underlying its joint venture investments. A significant portion of BBX Capital’s assets are located in Florida and economic conditions in the Florida real estate market could adversely affect, BBX Capital’s earnings and financial condition. The legacy assets retained by BBX Capital in the BB&T Transaction and the real estate investments made by BBX Capital are primarily in the Florida market, and adverse changes to the Florida economy or the real estate market may negatively impact BBX Capital’s earnings and financial condition. BBX Capital’s business, the primary source of repayment for loans and the real estate collateralizing loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure or settlements with borrowers and its investments in real estate joint ventures are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, BBX Capital is exposed to geographic risks of high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market in Florida. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on BBX Capital’s revenues, financial condition and business. Declines in the Florida housing markets may negatively impact the credit performance of BBX Capital’s loans and result in significant asset impairments. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt BBX Capital’s operations, adversely impact the ability of its borrowers to timely repay their loans, adversely impact the value of any collateral securing loans and BBX Capital’s portfolio of real estate (both held-for-sale and held-for-investment), or otherwise have an adverse effect on BBX Capital’s results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. An increase in BBX Capital’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. BBX Capital continues to be exposed to the risk that borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of these loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Management evaluates the collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: · the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; · previous loan loss experience; · delinquency trends; · estimated fair value of the collateral; and · current economic conditions. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in the loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in the loan portfolio. If such evaluation is incorrect and borrowers’ defaults result in losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if perceived adverse trends requires significant increases in the allowance for loan losses in the future, BBX Capital’s earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Non-accrual loans take significant time to resolve and adversely affect BBX Capital’s results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2015, non-accrual loans totaled approximately $17.4 million or 72% of BBX Capital’s total loan portfolio. Non-accrual loans adversely affect net income through foreclosure costs, operating expenses and 16 taxes. Until these loans are monetized, BBX Capital may incur additional losses relating to these non-accrual loans. BBX Capital records interest income on non-accrual loans on a cash basis. When BBX Capital receives the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, BBX Capital is required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property. These loans also increase BBX Capital’s risk profile, and increases in the level of non-accrual loans adversely affect BBX Capital’s results of operations and financial condition. While BBX Capital seeks to manage non-accrual loans, decreases in the value of these loans or deterioration in the financial condition of borrowers, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond BBX Capital’s control, could adversely affect BBX Capital’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-accrual loans requires significant commitments of management time. BBX Capital’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by properties located in South Florida. Financial institutions and other lenders have tightened underwriting standards which has limited the ability of borrowers to refinance. The majority of BBX Capital’s home equity loans are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If home prices decline, BBX Capital may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BBX Capital will be successful in recovering all or any portion of BBX Capital’s loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BBX Capital is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact BBX Capital’s results of operations. BBX Capital is involved in ongoing litigation which has resulted in significant selling, general and administrative expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include litigation brought by the SEC, litigation arising out of workouts and foreclosures, and legal proceedings associated with BankAtlantic’s tax certificate business. As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, the jury in the SEC action found that BBX Capital and BBX Capital’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan had engaged in an act of fraud or deceit toward shareholders or prospective investors by making materially false statements knowingly or with severe recklessness (1) with respect to three statements in a July 25, 2007 conference call and (2) failing to classify certain loans as held-for sale in the 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The jury also found that Mr. Levan made or caused to be made false statements to the independent accountants regarding the held for sale issue. BBX Capital and Mr. Levan have appealed the adverse judgment to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. While the results of appellate review are uncertain legal and related costs are being incurred in connection with the appeal. BBX Capital received legal fee and cost reimbursements from its insurance carrier in connection with the SEC action of approximately $5.8 million as of December 31, 2015 and the insurance carrier has indicated it may seek reimbursement for costs, charges and expenses advanced in connection with this matter. If BBX Capital is required to reimburse the insurance carrier, such reimbursements would adversely impact BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Adverse market conditions may affect BBX Capital’s business and results of operations. BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted as a result of any downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Negative market and economic developments may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates of BBX Capital’s loans and may impact charge-offs and provisions for loan losses and the value of BBX Capital’s real estate and other real estate related assets. Renin sales are concentrated with two significant customers and there is significant competition in the industry. A significant amount of Renin’s sales are to big-box home centers. These home centers in many instances have significant negotiating leverage with their vendors, and are able to affect the prices Renin receives for its products and the terms and conditions on which Renin conducts its business with them. These home centers may also reduce the number of vendors they purchase from or make significant changes in their volume of purchases. Although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for Renin’s products, the 17 loss of a home center customer or reduced sales volume from any of these home centers would have a material adverse effect on Renin’s business. Further, Renin has substantial competition from overseas manufacturers of products similar to those sold by Renin. A significant portion of Renin’s business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical and outside of management’s control. A significant portion of Renin’s business in Canada and the United States is dependent on the levels of home improvement activity, including spending on repair and remodeling projects, and new home construction activity. Macroeconomic conditions including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, interest rates, regulatory initiatives, and the availability of home equity loans and mortgage financing affect both discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. Adverse changes in these factors or uncertainty regarding these macroeconomic conditions could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, both of which could adversely affect Renin’s results of operations. The operating results of Renin and BBX Sweet Holdings would be negatively impacted if they experience increased commodity costs or a limited availability of commodities. BBX Capital’s operating businesses purchase various commodities to manufacture products, including steel, aluminum, glass and mirror in the case of Renin, and sugar and cocoa in the case of BBX Sweet Holdings. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase the cost to manufacture products. Further, increases in energy costs could increase production costs as well as transportation costs, each of which could negatively affect these businesses operating results. Renin’s and BBX Sweet Holdings’ existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and the relative negotiating power and resistance of home center customers and big-box retailers to price increases make it difficult to increase selling prices to absorb increased production costs. If Renin and BBX Sweet Holdings are not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve other cost savings or productivity improvements to offset any increased commodity and production costs, BBX Capital’s operating results could be negatively impacted. Unexpected events, such as natural disasters, severe weather and terrorist activities may disrupt Renin’s operations and increase its production costs. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather or terrorist activities in countries or regions in which Renin’s suppliers are located could adversely affect Renin’s operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, or other unexpected events could result in temporary or long-term disruption in the delivery or supply of necessary raw materials and component products from Renin’s suppliers, which would disrupt Renin’s production capabilities and likely increase its cost of doing business. Market demand for chocolate and candy products could decline. BBX Sweet Holdings and its acquired businesses operate in highly competitive markets and compete with larger companies that have greater resources. The success of these businesses is impacted by many factors, including the following: · Effective retail execution; · Effective and cost efficient advertising campaigns and marketing programs; · Adequate supply of commodities at a reasonable cost; · Oversight of product safety; · Ability to sell manufactured products at competitive prices; · Response to changes in consumer preferences and tastes; and · Changes in consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. A decline in market demand for chocolate and candy products could negatively affect operating results. 18 BBX Sweet Holdings product recall or product liability claims could have a material and adverse effect. Selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. BBX Sweet Holdings could decide or be required to destroy inventory, recall products or lose sales in connection with contamination, tampering, adulteration or other deficiencies. These events could result in significant losses and may damage BBX Sweet Holdings’ reputation, and discourage consumers from buying products, or cause production and delivery disruptions which would adversely affect BBX Sweet Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. BBX Sweet Holdings may also incur losses if products cause injury, illness or death. A significant product liability claim may adversely affect both reputation and profitability, even if the claim is unsuccessful. BBX Capital’s financial performance may adversely affect its ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. BBX Capital’s ability to fund operations and investment opportunities may depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to monetize its portfolio of non-accruing loans and foreclosed real estate. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of BBX Capital’s control, as well as litigation and its financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The failure to obtain capital may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. BBX Capital is controlled by BFC and its controlling shareholders, and this control position may adversely affect the market price of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock. BFC currently owns 13,321,441 shares of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 81% of the outstanding shares of such stock and all 195,045 outstanding shares of BBX Capital’s Class B Common Stock representing approximately 90% of BBX Capital’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo, Vice Chairman of BBX Capital and BFC, collectively beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 63% of BFC’s total voting power. BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control BBX Capital, elect BBX Capital’s board of directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in BBX Capital and still maintain voting control. BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with the Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of BBX Capital, and the Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. BBX Capital’s Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of BBX Capital’s total common equity and 47% of BBX Capital’s total voting power. As a result, the voting power of BBX Capital’s Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of the Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by the Class B Common Stock. Further, BBX Capital’s Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of the Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to shares of Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in BBX Capital, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of the Class A Common Stock. 19 Provisions in BBX Capital’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, and recently adopted shareholder rights plan, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire BBX Capital and could depress the price of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock. BBX Capital’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of BBX Capital or its management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: · the provisions in the Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of Class B Common Stock; · the authority of the board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; and · advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. In addition, on February 7, 2013, BBX Capital adopted a shareholder rights plan which is designed to preserve certain tax benefits available to BBX Capital. However, because the rights plan provides a deterrent to investors from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in Class A Common Stock, it may have an anti-takeover effect. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect BBX Capital’s operations. BBX Capital’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. BBX Capital’s business operations could be adversely affected if BBX Capital is unable to retain and motivate BBX Capital’s existing employees and attract new employees as needed. In addition, as previously described, the jury in the SEC action found that BBX Capital and Alan B. Levan committed violations of federal securities laws. While BBX Capital and Mr. Levan appealed the adverse judgment to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, the results of appellate review are uncertain. Mr. Alan Levan resigned as BBX Capital’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on December 23, 2015. BBX Capital believes that Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director and Vice Chairman of BBX Capital and Jarett Levan, the Board appointed acting Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will mitigate the loss of Mr. Alan Levan as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm BBX Capital’s business. BBX Capital relies on information technology (IT) systems, including Internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties. These IT systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. Moreover, BBX Capital’s computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. Although administrative and technical controls have been implemented which attempt to minimize the risk of cyber incidents, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and any enhanced controls installed might be breached. If the IT systems cease to function properly, BBX Capital could suffer interruptions in its operations. If the cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about borrowers, employees or investments. This could require BBX Capital to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of its systems. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 