Item 1A. Risk Factors” — “BankAtlantic has disclosed issues regarding its compliance with the USA Patriot Act, anti-money laundering laws and the Bank Secrecy Act which may subject it to fines and regulatory actions, including restrictions on its ability to pay dividends.” At December 31, 2005, BankAtlantic had approximately $263.3 million of indebtedness outstanding at the holding company level with maturities in 2032 and 2033. The aggregate annual interest expense on this indebtedness is approximately $19.3 million. During 2005, BankAtlantic Bancorp received $20 million of dividends from BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results would be adversely affected if the amounts needed to satisfy its debt obligations, including any additional indebtedness incurred in the future, exceeded the amount of dividends it receives from its subsidiaries. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans are concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, and any economic downturn in Florida or adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Florida, 22 Table of Contents adverse changes in laws or regulations in Florida or natural disasters could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the level of deposits our customers maintain with BankAtlantic, the success of BankAtlantic’s customers’ business activities, and the ability of BankAtlantic to expand its business. Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. A risk of doing business in the banking industry is that a failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments, depending upon the type of violation and various other factors. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. Ryan Beck We engage in the securities business through Ryan Beck, which subjects us to the risks of its business. The securities business is, by its nature, subject to various risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, including the risk of losses resulting from the underwriting or ownership of securities, customer fraud, employee errors and misconduct, failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. Ryan Beck’s business and its profitability are affected by many factors including: • the volatility and price levels of the securities markets, • the volume, size and timing of securities transactions, • the demand for investment banking services, • the level and volatility of interest rates, • the availability of credit, • legislation affecting the business and financial communities, • the economy in general, • the volatility of equity and debt securities held in inventory, and • attraction and retention of key personnel. Markets characterized by low trading volumes and depressed prices generally result in reduced commissions and investment banking revenues as well as losses from declines in the market value of securities positions. Moreover, Ryan Beck is likely to be adversely affected by negative economic developments in the mid-Atlantic region or the financial services industry in general. Volatility in either the stock or fixed-income markets could have an adverse impact on Ryan Beck’s operations. A major portion of Ryan Beck’s assets and liabilities are securities owned or securities sold but not yet purchased. Securities owned and securities sold but not yet purchased are associated with trading activities conducted both as principal and as agent on behalf of individual and institutional investor clients of Ryan Beck and are accounted for at fair value in our financial statements. The fair value of these trading positions is generally based on listed market prices. If listed market prices are not available or if liquidating the positions would reasonably be expected to impact market prices, fair value is determined based on other relevant factors, including dealer price quotations, price quotations for similar instruments traded in different markets or management’s estimates of amounts to be realized on settlement. As a consequence, volatility in either the stock or fixed-income markets could result in adverse changes in our financial results. Trading transactions as principal involve making markets in securities, which are held in inventory to facilitate sales to and purchases from customers. As a result of this activity, Ryan Beck may be required to hold securities during declining markets. 23 Table of Contents Parent Company We are controlled by BFC Corporation and its control position may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2005, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 15.0%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 54.9% of the Company’s total voting power. Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. BFC is in a position to control the Company and elect the Company’s Board of Directors. As a consequence, BFC has the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of bank regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to us; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit our activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • impose capital requirements on us. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company we are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may in the future impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations including our ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” Our portfolio of equity securities subjects us to equity pricing risks. We maintain a portfolio of publicly traded and privately held equity securities that subject us to equity pricing risks arising in connection with changes in the relative values due to changing market and economic conditions. Volatility or a decline in the financial markets can negatively impact our net income as a result of devaluation of these investments. At December 31, 2005 we had equity securities with a book value of approximately $82.1 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The repayment of our subordinated debentures is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 