Risk Factors” and in the information incorporated by reference herein. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, without limitation, risks related to the following: · the passage of state, federal or local legislation that would expand, restrict, further tax or prevent gaming operations in or adjacent to the jurisdictions in which we do business; · increases in our effective rate of taxation at any of our properties or at the corporate level; · the activities of our competitors; · successful completion of the various capital projects at our gaming and pari-mutuel facilities; · the existence of attractive acquisition candidates, the costs and risks involved in the pursuit of those acquisitions and our ability to integrate those acquisitions; · our ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to receive regulatory approvals for new businesses; · our dependence on key personnel; · the risks involved in divesting the Empress Casino Hotel in Joliet, Illinois, pursuant to an agreement with the Illinois Gaming Board, including without limitation receiving an acceptable purchase price; ii · the availability and cost of financing; · the maintenance of agreements with our horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and other organized labor groups; · the impact of terrorism and other international hostilities; and · other factors as discussed in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur. iii PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and operator of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our gaming operations through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation in March 2003 and Argosy Gaming Company (“Argosy”) in October 2005. We now own or operate seventeen facilities in thirteen jurisdictions, including Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ontario. In addition, on November 7, 2006, we agreed to acquire Zia Park racetrack and its Black Gold Casino in New Mexico. The transaction is expected to close mid-2007, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. We believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations. We intend to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of strategic acquisitions of gaming properties in attractive markets. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”, “the Company” and “Penn National” refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and it subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. The following table summarizes certain features of our properties and our managed facility as of December 31, 2006: Location Type of Facility Approx. Gaming Square Footage Gaming Machines Table Games(1) Hotel Rooms Owned Gaming Properties: Charles Town Entertainment Complex Charles Town, WV Land-based gaming/ Thoroughbred racing 151,450 4,183 — — Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg Lawrenceburg, IN Dockside gaming 74,300 2,417 74 300 Hollywood Casino Aurora Aurora, IL Dockside gaming 53,000 1,172 21 — Empress Casino Hotel(2) Joliet, IL Dockside gaming 50,000 1,211 20 100 Argosy Casino Riverside Riverside, MO Dockside gaming 56,400 1,800 40 — Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge Baton Rouge, LA Dockside gaming 28,000 1,141 27 — Argosy Casino Alton Alton, IL Dockside gaming 23,000 1,103 20 — Hollywood Casino Tunica Tunica, MS Dockside gaming 54,000 1,334 31 494 Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis Bay St. Louis, MS Land-based gaming 40,000 1,005 20 291 Argosy Casino Sioux City Sioux City, IA Dockside gaming 20,500 659 21 — Boomtown Biloxi Biloxi, MS Dockside gaming 80,850 1,400 22 — Hollywood Slots at Bangor Bangor, ME Land-based gaming 12,400 475 — — Bullwhackers Black Hawk, CO Land-based gaming 16,660 899 — — Operated Gaming Property: Casino Rama Orillia, Ontario Land-based gaming 93,000 2,505 101 289 Racing Properties: Penn National Race Course(3) Grantville, PA Thoroughbred racing — — — — Bangor Historic Track Bangor, ME Harness racing — — — — Raceway Park Toledo, OH Harness racing — — — — Freehold Raceway(4) Monmouth, NJ Harness racing — — — — Total 753,560 21,304 397 1,474 (1) Excludes poker tables. (2) In order to obtain regulatory approval from the Illinois Gaming Board for the acquisition of Argosy, we agreed to enter into a sale agreement for the Empress Casino Hotel by June 30, 2008. (3) In addition to our racetrack, Penn National Race Course operates six off-track wagering facilities, located in Pennsylvania. (4) Pursuant to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc. 1 Recent Developments —Hollywood Casino at Penn National In late December 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board (the “PGCB”) granted us a Category 1 slot machine license for the placement of slot machines at our planned Hollywood Casino racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In August 2006, we commenced construction of the integrated racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In preparation for the construction, we closed and razed the aged grandstand and clubhouse at Penn National Race Course, and opened a new 24,000 square foot temporary facility offering pari-mutuel wagering, food and beverage service, more than 250 television monitors, administrative offices and facilities for jockeys. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National will be a 365,000 square foot facility, and will be sized for 3,000 slot machines, with 2,000 positions planned at opening. At opening, the new facility will also include a food court, entertainment bar and lounge, trackside dining room, and a sports bar. A connected five-story self parking garage, with capacity for 2,500 cars, will be constructed and supplemented by approximately 1,200 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. —Hurricane Katrina As a result of Hurricane Katrina’s direct hit on the Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of our casinos, Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis (formerly known as Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis) and Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly damaged, many employees were displaced and operations ceased at the two properties. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29, 2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006. We had significant levels of insurance in place at the time of Hurricane Katrina to cover the losses resulting from the hurricane, including an “all risk” insurance policy covering “named windstorm” damage, flood damage, debris removal, preservation of property expense, demolition and increased cost of construction expense, and losses resulting from business interruption and extra expenses, all as defined in the policies. The comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance policies had an overall limit of $400 million, and was subject to property damage deductibles for Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi of approximately $6.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. The business interruption insurance component of this policy was subject to a five-day deductible. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our financial results benefited from a settlement agreement with our property and business interruption insurance providers for a total of $225 million for Hurricane Katrina-related losses at our Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well as minor proceeds related to our National Flood Insurance coverage and auto insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement agreement, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $128.3 million ($81.8 million, net of taxes). On August 8, 2006, we renewed our property insurance coverage in the amount of $200 million. The $200 million coverage is “all risk”, including “named windstorm”, flood and earthquake. Also, we purchased an additional $250 million of “all risk” coverage that is subject to certain exclusions including, among others, exclusion for “named windstorms”, floods and earthquakes. There is a $25 million deductible for “named windstorm” events, and lesser deductibles as they apply to other perils. Owned Gaming Properties Charles Town Entertainment Complex The complex is located within approximately a one-hour drive from Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C., and is the only gaming property located conveniently west of these two cities. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex has 151,450 square feet of gaming space, with approximately 4,183 gaming machines. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a refurbished, 3¤4-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 6,048 vehicles as well as simulcast 2 wagering and dining. In 2006, we completed construction of a 378-seat buffet and a new parking garage, which doubled our structured parking to 5,048 spaces. In addition, we continue to build and develop the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, with plans for the current expansion of the property including a 153-room on-site hotel and a 65,000 square foot expansion of the gaming floor. The expansion of the gaming floor will enable us to initially add 800 gaming machines, with capacity for an additional 1,000 gaming machines thereafter. The complex has been approved to operate a maximum of 6,500 gaming machines. The expanded gaming floor is expected to be completed in two phases, with the first phase being completed in May 2007. Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg The Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati and is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, its principal target market. The casino also services the major metropolitan markets of Dayton and Columbus, Ohio and, to a lesser extent, Indianapolis, Indiana and Lexington, Kentucky. The casino has 74,300 square feet of gaming space on three levels with approximately 2,417 slot machines, 74 table games and 15 poker tables. The complex also features a 300-room hotel, a land-based entertainment pavilion and support facility featuring a 350-seat buffet restaurant, two specialty restaurants, an entertainment lounge, a 1,710 space parking garage and a 1,640 space remote parking lot. We are moving forward with the construction of a planned casino development. The development includes a 1,500 space parking garage which is expected to open in the second quarter of 2008, a two-level 270,000 square foot riverboat, and numerous infrastructure upgrades to allow more convenient access to the property, which are expected to open in the second quarter of 2009. The new riverboat will allow up to 4,000 positions on one level and another 400 positions will be added to the second level, along with restaurants and other amenities on the gaming riverboat. Hollywood Casino Aurora Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois, approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. The facility is easily accessible from major highways, can be reached by train from downtown Chicago, and is approximately 30 miles from both the O’Hare International and Midway airports. Hollywood Casino Aurora has a 53,000 square foot single-level dockside casino facility with 1,172 gaming machines, 21 gaming tables and 5 poker tables. The facility features two upscale lounges, a steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet®, a fast food outlet, a high-end customer lounge and a private dining room for premium players. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has two parking garages with approximately 1,564 parking spaces and a gift shop. Empress Casino Hotel The Empress Casino Hotel, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40 miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides 50,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels with approximately 1,211 slot machines, 20 table games and 3 poker tables. The casino theme evokes Northern California’s wine country and features a 150,000 square foot entertainment pavilion with three restaurants, an entertainment lounge and banquet/conference facilities. The complex also includes a 100-room hotel, surface parking areas with approximately 1,616 spaces and an 80-space recreational vehicle park. In order to obtain regulatory approval from the Illinois Gaming Board for the acquisition of Argosy, we agreed to enter into a sale agreement for the Empress Casino Hotel by June 30, 2008. 3 Argosy Casino Riverside The Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri. The casino primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern and western regions of the Kansas City metropolitan area. This Las Vegas-style casino features approximately 56,400 square feet of gaming space with approximately 1,800 slot machines, 40 table games and 7 poker tables. This state-of-the-art Mediterranean-themed casino features an innovative “floating” casino floor that provides a seamless transition between the casino and land-based support areas, which include an entertainment facility featuring 6 food and beverage areas, including a buffet, steak house, deli, coffee bar, VIP lounge and sports/entertainment lounge and 14,000 square feet of banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside currently has parking for approximately 2,800 vehicles. Construction continues on a 258-room hotel that is expected to open in April 2007. This hotel will increase the total banquet/conference facilities to 19,000 square feet, and parking to 3,000 spaces. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge (formerly known as Casino Rouge) is currently one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge property features a riverboat casino, reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet of gaming space, 1,141 gaming machines and 27 table games. The facility also includes a two-story, 58,000-square foot dockside building featuring a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, a premium players’ lounge, a nightclub that doubles as a players’ event area, a lobby bar, a public atrium, two meeting rooms, 1,548 parking spaces, a players’ club booth, a deli and a gift shop. In February 2007, we completed a renovation of the dockside building’s interior décor. The renovation includes a completely new art deco themed interior design for the lobby and entry corridor as well as a new nightclub, lobby bar, gift shop, and employee dining room. In February 2007, concurrent with the completion of the renovation, the property was re-named from Casino Rouge to Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge. In connection with the new name, also added were a new marquee, sky tracker lights, new signage, Hollywood memorabilia displays, cast member uniforms and a digital video system throughout the property. In addition, the advertising, marketing and entertainment programs have been enhanced to complement the Hollywood theme. Argosy Casino Alton The Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown St. Louis and primarily services the St. Louis metropolitan market. The target customers of the Argosy Casino Alton are drawn largely from the northern and eastern regions of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, as well as portions of central and southern Illinois. The Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming facility featuring 23,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 1,103 slot machines and 20 table games. The Argosy Casino Alton includes an entertainment pavilion and features a 124-seat buffet, a restaurant and a 400-seat main showroom. The facility includes parking areas with 1,258 spaces. Hollywood Casino Tunica Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest resort gaming jurisdiction to, and is easily accessible from, the Memphis, Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from surrounding markets such as 4 Nashville, Tennessee, Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Hollywood Casino Tunica features 54,000 square feet of gaming space at a single-level casino with approximately 1,334 slot machines, 31 table games and 6 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Tunica’s 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide overnight accommodations for its patrons. The casino includes multimedia displays of memorabilia from famous adventure motion pictures. Additional entertainment amenities include a steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet, a 1950’s-style diner, an entertainment lounge, a premium players’ club, a themed bar facility, a non-smoking slot room, an indoor pool and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. There is also an 18-hole championship golf course adjacent to the facility that is owned and operated through a joint venture of three gaming companies. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers parking for 1,635 cars. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006 after being closed for approximately one year due to extensive damage caused by Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis was formerly known as Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis, but, concurrent, with its August 31, 2006 opening, it was re-named as Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers a 40,000 square foot casino. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis features 20 table games, 6 poker tables and 1,005 slot machines, with room to expand to 1,270 slot machines. In addition, the damaged areas of the existing 291-room hotel tower were completely refurbished. The waterfront Hollywood Hotel features a 10,000 square foot ballroom including nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 17,000 square feet of meeting space. Hollywood offers live entertainment on weekends in three separate venues including Shakers martini bar, Club Royale and starting in March monthly concerts in the ballroom. The Bridges golf course is an 18-hole championship golf course reopened in mid-October after being masterfully renovated by Seaside Golf Development under the watchful eye of Arnold Palmer’s Course Design Group. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis has three restaurants including Tuscany Steaks & Seafood® (fine dining), the Hollywood Epic Buffet and Jackpot Java a 24-hour deli style cafe. The Bridges Clubhouse reopened with a new pro shop and grill in February 2007. Other amenities include a RV Park with 100 sites and Tokens gift shop. Argosy Casino Sioux City The Argosy Casino Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 20,500 square feet of gaming space with approximately 659 slot machines, 21 table games and 6 poker tables. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring buffet dining facilities, meeting space, 389 parking spaces and administrative support offices. Boomtown Biloxi Boomtown Biloxi, which had been closed since late August 2005 as a result of extensive damage caused by Hurricane Katrina, reopened on June 29, 2006 with a re-modeled interior, including approximately 1,100 new slot machines, 22 table games and a 350-seat buffet. In early September 2006, Boomtown Biloxi opened its pier-based expansion, with 300 additional slot machines, for a total of 1,400 slot machines, 7 poker tables and a full-service restaurant. Hollywood Slots at Bangor Hollywood Slots at Bangor is situated near historic Bass Park, where Bangor Raceway is located, in downtown Bangor, Maine. The facility includes a small restaurant, full beverage service, 220 parking spaces and 12,400 square feet of gaming space with approximately 475 slot machines. In late December 2006, we completed the purchase of the former Holiday Inn in Bangor, Maine, where we will be building the permanent Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility. Due to the results currently generated by our temporary facility and a substantial number of patrons driving significant distances to 5 Hollywood Slots at Bangor, we are adding a hotel to the plans for the permanent facility, which will feature a two-story, semi-circular, glass tower casino area, a four-story parking garage, restaurants, retail space and a new simulcast facility for off-track wagering. Construction of the facility, which will open with 1,000 slot machines and have capacity for 1,500 gaming machines, is planned to commence in the first half of 2007, following the demolition of the existing hotel and adjacent buildings. Bangor Raceway is located at historic Bass Park in downtown Bangor, Maine. Harness racing has been conducted continuously at Bass Park since 1893 and it was once part of racing’s Grand Circuit during the 1920s. In 2006, Bangor Raceway conducted 44 days of harness racing from late April through early November on its one-half mile track. With over 12,000 square feet of space, the facility can seat 3,500 patrons and features a restaurant and cocktail lounge. Bullwhackers The Bullwhackers properties include the Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino and the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino. The Bullwhackers properties are located in Black Hawk, Colorado and include 16,660 square feet of gaming space consisting of 899 slot machines. The properties also include a 344-car parking area. Racing Properties Penn National Race Course Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, and is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg, 100 miles west of Philadelphia and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh. Penn National is one of only two operating thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania. The property includes a one-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack, and a 7¤8-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres that are available for future expansion or development. In late December 2006, the PGCB granted us a Category 1 slot machine license for the placement of slot machines at our planned Hollywood Casino racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In August 2006, we commenced construction of the integrated racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In preparation for the construction, we closed and razed the aged grandstand and clubhouse at Penn National Race Course, and opened a new 24,000 square foot temporary facility offering pari-mutuel wagering, food and beverage services, more than 250 television monitors, administrative offices and facilities for jockeys. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National will be a 365,000 square foot facility, and will be sized for 3,000 slot machines, with 2,000 positions planned at opening. At opening, the new facility will also include a food court, entertainment bar and lounge, trackside dining room, and a sports bar. A connected five-story self parking garage, with capacity for 2,500 cars, will be constructed and supplemented by approximately 1,200 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. Raceway Park Raceway Park is a 58,250 square foot facility, with a 5¤8-mile harness racing track located in Toledo, Ohio. The facility also features simulcast wagering and has a 1,977 theatre-style seating capacity and parking for 3,000 vehicles. Freehold Raceway Through our joint venture, we own Freehold Raceway located in Freehold in Western Monmouth County, New Jersey. The property features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand. 6 Off-track wagering facilities (“OTWs”) Our OTWs and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred and harness horse racing, televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate six of the twenty-one OTWs in operation in Pennsylvania; one remaining OTW is authorized for operation. Only licensed racing associations can operate OTWs or accept customer wagers on simulcast races. We have been transmitting simulcasts of our races to other OTWs, thoroughbred and harness horse racetracks, and greyhound dog racetracks, throughout the United States, and receiving simulcasts of races from other thoroughbred and harness horse racetracks for wagering by customers at our OTW locations and our horse racetrack facilities, year-round, for more than thirteen years. Import simulcasts typically include races from premier horse racetracks such as Belmont Park, Churchill Downs, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and Saratoga. Account Wagering/Internet Wagering In 1983, we pioneered Telebet®, the complete account wagering operation for Penn National Race Course. The platform offers account wagering on more than 80 U.S. racetracks, and currently has more than 7,300 active account betting customers from the 14 states that permit account wagering as well as the U.S. Virgin Islands. We have also developed strategic relationships to further our wagering activities. In August 1999, we entered into an agreement with eBet Limited, an Internet wagering operation in Australia, to license their eBetUSA.com technology in the U.S. Through eBetUSA.com, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, we use the eBetUSA.com technology to permit on-line pari-mutuel horseracing wagering over the internet in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations, as permitted. We currently accept wagers from residents of 14 U.S. states and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Operated Gaming Property Casino Rama Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we operate Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Mnjikaning First Nation, approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space, 2,505 gaming machines, 101 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the property includes a 5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room hotel and 3,170 parking spaces. The majority of the capital for construction of the hotel and entertainment facility was financed by an affiliate of the Mnjikaning First Nation, and is being repaid out of the revenue of Casino Rama pursuant to the terms of the Development and Operating Agreement described below. The Development and Operating Agreement under which CHC Casinos Canada Limited operates the facility, which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC Casinos Canada Limited. As the operator, CHC Casinos Canada Limited is entitled to a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the casino’s net operating profit. The management service contract terminates on July 31, 2011, and the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has the option to extend the term of the agreement and CHC Casinos Canada Limited’s appointment as operator for two successive periods of five years each commencing on August 1, 2011. 7 Trademarks We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S. PTO”), including but not limited to, “Telebet,” “World Series of Handicapping,” and “Players’ Choice.” We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO. BTN, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses “Boomtown” and other trademarks. As a result of our acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy, we own the service marks “Hollywood Casino” and “Argosy” which are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have been informed that our rights to the “Hollywood Casino” and “Argosy” service marks are well established and have competitive value to the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties. We have also acquired other trademarks used by the Hollywood Casino and Argosy facilities and their related services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending applications with the U.S. PTO. Competition Gaming Operations The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, some of which have financial and other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive gaming activities include traditional and Native American casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S. and in several Canadian provinces. In addition, other jurisdictions may legalize gaming in the near future and established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. Charles Town, West Virginia. Our gaming machine operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex face competition in neighboring states of Pennsylvania, Delaware, and New Jersey (including, but not limited to, Dover Downs, Delaware Park and Harrington Raceway in Delaware and the casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey). On February 16, 2007, the West Virginia House of Delegates passed a bill to allow counties to determine, by local election, whether to permit certain table games at racetracks in the state. The West Virginia Senate is currently considering the bill. In Pennsylvania, slot operations commenced at Philadelphia Park, Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, and Chester Downs, and slot licenses have been issued to us at Penn National Race Course, The Meadows outside of Pittsburgh, two stand-alone casinos in Philadelphia and one in Pittsburgh. The Maryland legislature is currently considering legislation permitting slot machine gaming. In Delaware, legislation to increase the number of video lottery terminals at gaming facilities from 2,500 to 4,000 passed and was signed by the Governor of Delaware in 2006. This bill also allows gaming facilities in Delaware to operate 24 hours per day, with the exception of Sundays and certain holidays. The Delaware legislature is also considering a bill that would permit two stand-alone casinos, in addition to the existing gaming facilities at the state’s three racetracks. Lawrenceburg, Indiana. The Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, and faces competition from two other riverboat casinos in the Cincinnati market. The nearest competitor is located approximately 15 miles further south of Lawrenceburg in Rising Sun, Indiana. Another competitor is located 40 miles from Lawrenceburg in Switzerland County, Indiana. On February 24, 2007, the Indiana House of Representatives passed a bill that would allow the operation of 2,500 slot machines at each of Indiana’s two racetracks. The bill will now move to the Indiana Senate for consideration. Casino gaming is not currently permitted under the laws of either Ohio or Kentucky. The Ohio legislature has considered, at various times, legislation that would allow Ohio voters to approve certain types of casino gaming at racetracks. In November 2006, Ohio voters rejected a proposed constitutional amendment that would have established a tuition grant program for Ohio students to attend 8 public or private colleges in the state by allowing up to 3,500 slot machines at each of the state’s seven existing racetracks and two locations in downtown Cleveland. Legislation has been introduced in Kentucky to allow gaming at racetracks and casinos, subject to referendum. To date, neither Ohio nor Kentucky has enacted such proposed legislation. The commencement of casino gaming in Ohio or Kentucky could have an adverse effect on the financial results of our Lawrenceburg casino. Chicagoland. Aurora and Joliet are part of the Chicagoland market that includes properties in the Chicago suburbs in both Illinois and northern Indiana. Hollywood Casino Aurora and Empress Casino Hotel face competition from numerous other riverboat casinos in the Chicago-area market, dockside casinos that are located in Illinois and dockside casinos that are located in Indiana. Due to significantly higher gaming taxes imposed on Illinois riverboats, the Indiana riverboats have been able to spend greater amounts on marketing and other amenities, which has significantly increased their ability to compete with the Illinois riverboats. Any increase in gaming taxes or admission fees imposed on Illinois riverboats could have an adverse impact on the financial results of our Chicagoland casinos. New competition in the region is currently limited by state legislation. The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the regulations promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board under the Riverboat Gambling Act authorize only 10 owners’ licenses for riverboat gaming operations in Illinois and permit a maximum of 1,200 gaming positions at any time for each of the 10 licensed sites. All authorized owners’ licenses have been granted; however, one of the licenses has remained dormant due to a bankruptcy proceeding and ongoing dispute among the investors in such license, their host city, the Illinois Gaming Board and Illinois government. Illinois is currently seeking to sell this tenth license. In the event that these disputes are fully resolved and a sale is consummated, this license will likely become operational. We may face additional competition if such a licensee were to open a gaming facility in the area around Chicagoland. The legislature has considered, at various times, legislation that would expand gaming in the state of Illinois. Should the Illinois legislature enact such gaming-expansion legislation, the financial results of our Chicagoland casinos could be adversely affected. Riverside, Missouri. The Argosy Casino Riverside currently faces competition from three other casinos in this market. The Kansas legislature has considered, at various times, legislation to expand casino gaming in its state. During previous legislative sessions, as well as the current legislative session, legislation was introduced in Missouri that would increase admission and gaming taxes, while removing the loss limit in the State. Should Kansas enact such legislation or Missouri increase admission or gaming taxes, our Riverside casino’s financial results could be adversely affected. Alton, Illinois. The Argosy Casino Alton faces competition from four other riverboat casino companies currently operating in the St. Louis, Missouri area, including one other Illinois licensee. In addition, two casino projects (one in downtown St. Louis and another in south St. Louis County) are in various stages of development and are pending regulatory approvals. As an Illinois licensee, the Argosy Casino Alton is not subject to Missouri’s $500-loss limit. Should the Illinois legislature enact gaming-expansion legislation or increase admission or gaming taxes, our Alton casino’s financial results could be adversely affected. Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge faces competition from land-based and riverboat casinos throughout Louisiana and on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, casinos on Native American lands and from non-casino gaming opportunities within Louisiana. The principal competitor to Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is the Belle of Baton Rouge, which is the only other licensed riverboat casino in Baton Rouge. We face competition from eleven casinos on the Mississippi Gulf coast, which is approximately 120 miles east of Baton Rouge; many of these casinos are destination resorts that attract customers from the Baton Rouge area. Subsequent to Hurricane Katrina, Mississippi Gulf Coast casinos are allowed to operate as land-based facilities. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge also faces competition from two major riverboat casinos, one land-based casino in the New Orleans area, which is approximately 75 miles from Baton Rouge, and three Native American casinos in Louisiana. The two closest Native American casinos are land-based facilities located approximately 45 miles southwest and approximately 9 65 miles northwest of Baton Rouge. In addition, we face competition from a racetrack located approximately 55 miles from Baton Rouge that began operating approximately 1,500 gaming machines in December 2003. We also face competition from approximately 3,000 video poker machines located in truck stops, restaurants, bars and off-track betting facilities located in certain surrounding parishes. In addition, another gaming operator has filed documents with the Louisiana Gaming Control Board to place a third riverboat casino in Baton Rouge, subject to various approvals, including local referendum. Should East Baton Rouge Parish voters approve an expansion of gaming in the Baton Rouge market, the financial results of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge could be adversely affected. Tunica County, Mississippi. Hollywood Casino Tunica faces intense competition from nine other casinos operating in north Tunica County and Coahoma County. The Tunica County market is segregated into two casino clusters, Casino Center and Casino Strip, where Hollywood Casino Tunica is located, as well as three stand-alone properties. A shuttle service provides transportation between the various Tunica County casinos. In addition, we compete with another casino located approximately 40 miles south of the Casino Strip cluster in Coahoma County. The close proximity of the casinos in Tunica County has contributed to the competition between casinos because it allows consumers to visit a variety of casinos in a short period of time. The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted. Any significant increase in new competition in or around Tunica County could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino Tunica. Hollywood Casino Tunica also competes to some extent with a land-based casino complex operated by the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians in central Mississippi, approximately 200 miles south and east of Memphis, Tennessee. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica may eventually face competition from the opening of gaming casinos closer to Memphis, such as in DeSoto County, Mississippi, which is the only county between Tunica County and the Tennessee border. DeSoto County has defeated gaming proposals on three separate occasions, most recently in November 1996. In November 2006, Southland Park Gaming & Racing, formerly Southland Greyhound Park, in West Memphis, Arkansas, opened a gaming facility with more than 800 electronic “games of skill”. The facility is located across the Mississippi River from Memphis. Casino gaming is not currently legalized in Tennessee; however, the legalization of gaming in Tennessee could have a material adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Tunica. Mississippi Gulf Coast. As a result of Hurricane Katrina’s direct hit on the Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of the Company’s casinos, Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly damaged, many employees were displaced and operations ceased at the two properties. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29, 2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, dockside gaming grew rapidly on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing from no dockside casinos in March 1992 to twelve operating dockside casinos on December 31, 2004. Nine of these facilities were located in Biloxi, two were located in Gulfport and one was located in Bay St. Louis. Including the Company’s casinos, seven of the casinos in Biloxi have re-opened, one of the Gulfport casinos reopened and two Bay St. Louis properties opened in 2006. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, our Bay St. Louis property was the only casino in the Bay St. Louis market. Currently there are two casinos in the Bay St. Louis market, with three additional proposed casinos to come online in the next few years. As of December 31, 2006, the Mississippi Gulf Coast has 10 casinos operating, compared to the 12 that were open prior to Hurricane Katrina. During the 2005 special session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill to allow Gulf Coast casinos to rebuild on land was approved and signed by the Governor of Mississippi. In addition, the Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted and there are a number of additional sites located in the Gulf Coast region that are in various stages of development. Any significant increase in the competition in the region could negatively impact our existing operations. Sioux City, Iowa. The Argosy Casino Sioux City competes primarily with land-based Native American casinos that are not required to report gaming revenues and other operating statistics, therefore market comparisons cannot be made. In June 2006, Wild Rose Casino & Resort opened in Emmetsburg, 10 Iowa. We also compete with certain providers and operators of video gaming in the neighboring state of South Dakota. Additionally, to a lesser extent, we compete with slot machines at a pari-mutuel racetrack in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and with two riverboat casinos in the Council Bluffs/Omaha, Nebraska market, approximately 90 miles south of Sioux City. Bangor, Maine. Hollywood Slots at Bangor is the only facility with slot machines in the state of Maine. The closest competitors offering slot machines are Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun in Connecticut, Newport Grand Casino in Rhode Island and Horizon’s Edge casino cruise ship operating in Lynn, Massachusetts, all approximately 300 miles away. Black Hawk, Colorado. The Black Hawk gaming market is characterized by intense competition. The primary competitive factors in the market are location, availability and convenience of parking, number of slot machines and gaming tables, promotional incentives, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and overall atmosphere. There are currently 20 gaming facilities in the Black Hawk market and six gaming facilities in nearby Central City. Central City and Black Hawk gaming facilities compete for visitors, but historically, Black Hawk has enjoyed an advantage over Central City because customers had to drive through Black Hawk to reach Central City. During 2004, Central City completed construction of, and opened, a road directly connecting Central City and Black Hawk with Interstate 70, which allows customers to reach Central City without driving through Black Hawk. Ontario. Our operation of Casino Rama through CHC Casinos Canada Limited faces competition in Ontario from three other commercial casinos, six charity casinos and at least 17 racetracks with gaming machines in the province. All of the casinos (including Casino Rama) and gaming machine facilities are operated by or on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation also operates several province-wide lotteries. There are two charity casinos and six racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly affect Casino Rama. The two charity casinos together have 105 gaming tables and 1,051 gaming machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks ranges from 250 to over 1,950 each. There are also two commercial casinos located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of Toronto with a total of 186 gaming tables and 4,866 gaming machines. Racing Operations Our racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Ohio and West Virginia lotteries. Our account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new OTWs, new racetracks or new providers of account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. U.S. and Foreign Revenues Our net revenues from continuing operations in the U.S. for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $2,226.4 million, $1,350.5 million and $1,089.0 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $18.1 million, $18.6 million, and $16.3 million, respectively. Segments In accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information” (“SFAS 131”), the Company views each property as an operating segment. Historically, the Company aggregated its gaming properties that were economically similar, offered similar types of 11 products and services, catered to the same types of customers and were similarly regulated into a reportable segment called gaming, and aggregated its racing properties that were economically similar, offered similar products and services, catered to the similar types of customers and were similarly regulated into a reportable segment called racing. Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, the Company modified its segment reporting from two reportable segments to one reportable segment, as the Company believes that its gaming and racing properties can now be aggregated together in accordance with SFAS 131, due to ongoing changes at its racing properties, including the upcoming introduction of slot machines at Penn National Race Course. Management Name Age Position Peter M. Carlino 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William J. Clifford 49 Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer Leonard M. DeAngelo 55 Executive Vice President of Operations Robert S. Ippolito 55 Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer Jordan B. Savitch 41 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Peter M. Carlino. Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since April 1994. From 1984 to 1994, he devoted a substantial portion of his time to developing, building and operating residential and commercial real estate projects located primarily in central Pennsylvania. Since 1976, Mr. Carlino has been President of Carlino Financial Corporation, a holding company that owns and operates various Carlino family businesses, in which capacity he has been continuously active in strategic planning and monitoring its operations. William J. Clifford. Mr. Clifford joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer in October 2001. From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. From May 1989 to November 1993, Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for the Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las Vegas, Senior Internal Auditor with Del Webb, Las Vegas, and Agent, Audit Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno. Leonard M. DeAngelo. Mr. DeAngelo joined us in July 2003 as Executive Vice President of Operations. From December 2000 to July 2003, Mr. DeAngelo served as President of the Atlantic City Hilton Casino Resort. Prior to being named President of the Atlantic City Hilton, Mr. DeAngelo served for three years as Corporate Senior Vice President of Casino Marketing with Sun International Resorts, Inc., where, in addition to his marketing responsibilities, he also oversaw information technology initiatives relating to the casinos, including operations, marketing, data warehousing and online projects. From November 1995 to December 1997, Mr. DeAngelo was President of the Sands Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City. He served with the Sands in other executive positions beginning in 1983, holding the titles of Director of Casino Administration, Vice President Casino Administration and Senior Vice President before being named President. He began his career in the gaming and hotel industry in 1979 at Bally’s Park Place Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City. 12 Robert S. Ippolito. In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President. Mr. Ippolito has served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more than 23 years of gaming and racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business. Jordan B. Savitch. Mr. Savitch joined us in September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From June 1999 to April 2002, Mr. Savitch served as a director and senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company offering innovative software solutions for increasing sales effectiveness. From 1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in identifying, developing and operating emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, LLP in New York, New York. Governmental Regulations The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference. Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. Employees and Labor Relations As of December 31, 2006, we had 14,874 full- and part-time employees. We are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and simulcasting activities. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders. At the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that expires on December 31, 2007 and an agreement with the breeders that expires on June 30, 2007. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on December 31, 2010. Our agreement with the Pennsylvania thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30, 2011. We have an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions and Telebet personnel that expires on December 31, 2007. We also have an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs. That agreement, which we are currently documenting, will expire on September 30, 2009. We expect to enter into a new, long-term, agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association prior to the start of the 2007 racing season. Pennwood Racing, Inc. also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway which expires in May 2009. 13 Throughout our Argosy properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately two thousand employees. Additionally, at the Alton property, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU, AFL-CIO represents eight of our employees, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers represents nine of our employees, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America represents fifty-nine of our employees. At our Indiana and Iowa properties, the American Maritime Officers Union represents eighteen of our employees. We have collective bargaining agreements with these unions that expire at various times between July 2007 and June 2011. At the Empress Casino Hotel, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union (“UNITE/HERE”), Local 1 represents approximately three hundred employees. The Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Joliet labor agreement expires on March 31, 2010. At Raceway Park, the pari-mutuel tellers are represented by SEIU Local 47, which has subcontracted with UNITE/HERE Local 10 to handle the business affairs of the pari-mutuel tellers, and the current contract expires on May 31, 2007. Available Information For more information about us, visit our web site at www.pngaming.com. Our electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including all annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business A substantial portion of our revenues and income from operations is derived from our Charles Town, West Virginia and Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg, Indiana facilities. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 42.7% and 45.4% of our net revenue and income from operations, respectively, were collectively derived from our Charles Town and Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg operations. Our ability to meet our operating and debt service requirements is substantially dependent upon the continued success of these facilities. The operations at these facilities could be adversely affected by numerous factors including: · risks related to local and regional economic and competitive conditions, such as a decline in the number of visitors to the facility, a downturn in the overall economy in the market, a decrease in gaming activities in the market or an increase in competition within and outside the state; · changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming operations and taxes) applicable to a facility; · impeded access to the facility due to weather, road construction or closures of primary access routes; and · the occurrence of floods and other natural disasters. If any of these events occur, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline significantly. We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we may acquire in the future. We expect to continue pursuing expansion and acquisition opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisition of other properties, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates, some potentially significant in relation to our size. We could face significant challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined operations of the Company and any other properties we may acquire. The integration of any other properties we may acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily 14 divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating properties that we may acquire also may interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We also cannot assure you that if acquisitions are completed, that the acquired businesses will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other effects. Our ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level property management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence of some or all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We face risks related to the development and expansion of our current properties. We expect to use a portion of our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility for significant capital expenditures at certain of our properties. Any proposed enhancement may require us to significantly increase the size of our existing work force at those properties. We cannot be certain that management will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees to operate and manage these facilities at their optimal levels. The failure to employ the necessary work force could adversely affect our operations and ultimately harm profitability. In addition, these enhancements could involve risks similar to construction risks including cost over-runs, delays, market deterioration and timely receipt of required licenses, permits or authorizations, among others. Our failure to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated profits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a number of challenges prior to opening new gaming facilities. No assurance can be given that the expected timetable for opening new gaming facilities will be met in light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory framework, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation. We face significant competition from other gaming operations and racing operations. Gaming operations. The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, Internet gaming and other forms of gambling in the United States. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including shopping, high school, collegiate and professional athletic events, television and movies, concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities, may legalize gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. Gaming competition is particularly intense in most of the markets where we operate. As competing properties are opened, our operating results may be negatively affected. Some of our competitors have more gaming industry experience, are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources. In addition, some of our direct competitors in certain markets may have superior facilities and/or operating 15 conditions. There could be further competition in our markets as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes. We expect each existing or future market in which we participate to be highly competitive. The competitive position of each of our casino properties is discussed in detail in the subsection entitled “Competition—Gaming Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Racing operations. Our racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and off-track wagering facilities, some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maine, Ohio, Delaware and West Virginia lotteries. Our account wagering operations compete with providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new off-track wagering facilities, new racetracks or new providers of account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition. From time to time, we are defendants in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all litigation, no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and in general, litigation can be expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in the defense of these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (see, for example, the lawsuits listed in Item 3 below). We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities. Licensing requirements. As owners and operators of gaming and pari-mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission, the Illinois Gaming Board, the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Iowa Gaming and Racing Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Mississippi State Tax Commission, the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Racing Commission, the Ohio State Racing Commission, the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission, the West Virginia Lottery Commission, the Maine Gambling Control Board and the Maine Harness Racing Commission, have broad discretion, and may, for any reason set forth in the applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries or prevent another person from owning an equity interest in us. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities have input into our operations, for instance, hours of operation, location or relocation of a facility, numbers and types of machines and loss limits. Regulators may also levy substantial fines against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming and pari-mutuel facilities. We 16 cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. In addition, the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. As we expand our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or to new areas, we may have to meet additional suitability requirements and obtain additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be sure that we will be successful. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must generally apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate such an owner’s suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Potential changes in legislation and regulation of our operations. Regulations governing the conduct of gaming activities and the obligations of gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial or other burdens on the way we conduct our business. Moreover, legislation to prohibit or limit gaming may be introduced in the future in states where gaming has been legalized. In addition, from time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, in October 2005, the Illinois House of Representatives voted to approve proposed legislation that would eliminate riverboat gambling. If the Illinois Senate were to pass a bill eliminating riverboat gambling, our business would be materially impacted. However, leadership in the Illinois Senate has indicated that the Senate will not pass this bill. In addition, legislation enacting smoking bans can also adversely affect our business. Taxation and fees. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. Compliance with other laws. We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel. We are highly dependent on the services of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, 17 our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. New or changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies. These new or changed laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. Due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses. In addition, we are subject to different parties’ interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. A failure to comply with any of these new laws or regulations could have a materially adverse effect on the company. For instance, if our gaming authorities, the SEC, our independent auditors or our shareholders and potential shareholders conclude that our compliance with the regulations is unsatisfactory, this may result in a negative public perception of our company, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny, penalties or otherwise adversely affect us. Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. Because many of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to rivers, these facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. For example, in late August 2005, we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis (formerly known as Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis) in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi, Mississippi and Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge (formerly known as Casino Rouge) in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge subsequently reopened on August 30, 2005. However, due to the extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume operations until June 29, 2006 and August 31, 2006, respectively. In addition, several of our casinos are subject to risks generally associated with the movement of vessels on inland waterways, including risks of collision or casualty due to river turbulence and traffic. Many of our casinos operate in areas which are subject to periodic flooding that has caused us to experience decreased attendance and increased operating expenses. Any flood or other severe weather condition could lead to the loss of use of a casino facility for an extended period. The extent to which we can recover under our insurance policies for damages sustained at our Gulf Coast properties in the event of future hurricanes, as well as changes in the local gaming market as a result of the hurricane could adversely affect our business. On August 28, 2005, we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi and Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi, Mississippi in anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Due to the extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume operations until June 29, 2006 and August 31, 2006, respectively. We maintain significant property insurance, including business interruption coverage, for both Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi. However, there can be no assurances that we will be fully or promptly compensated for weather-related losses at any of our facilities in the event of future hurricanes. The infrastructure damage caused by Hurricane Katrina to the communities surrounding our Bay St. Louis and Biloxi properties could adversely affect the local gaming markets by making travel and staffing more difficult. The reopening dates and plans of our competitors could also adversely affect our future operating results. 18 We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From time to time, we have incurred and are incurring costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters. To date, none of these matters have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent property. The Bullwhackers and Silver Hawk Casinos are located within the geographic footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a large area of historic mining activity which is the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for this Superfund Site, it is possible that as a result of our ownership and operation of these properties (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may incur costs related to this matter in the future. Furthermore, we are aware that there is or may be soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our facilities resulting from current or former operations. These matters are in various stages of investigation, and we are not able at this time to estimate the costs that will be required to resolve them. To date, none of these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines operated by us at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up to date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers. We believe that a substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were manufactured by a few select companies. In addition, we believe that one company in particular provided a majority of all slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years. In recent years, the prices of new slot machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could hurt our profitability. We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks. The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, the West Virginia Racing Act and the Pennsylvania Racing Act require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the 19 horse owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania race tracks. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of a majority of the horse breeders. Effective October 1, 2004, we signed an agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course that expires on September 30, 2011. At the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen that became effective on January 1, 2005 and expires on December 31, 2007. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on December 31, 2010. We expect to enter in a new, long-term, agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association prior to the start of the 2007 racing season. If we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and off-track wagering facilities, and, in West Virginia, we will not be permitted to operate our gaming machines. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen’s approval. If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union activity in the future. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt. We continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and · result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt. 20 Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including to fund acquisitions. The terms of our existing indebtedness do not, and any future debt may not, fully prohibit us from doing so. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on business. We intend to finance our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our current senior secured credit facility and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our senior secured credit facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development and renovation projects, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us. Our existing senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage and total leverage and senior leverage ratios. In addition, our existing senior secured credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, repay indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures, or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing senior subordinated notes could lead to an event of default thereunder which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness. In addition, the indentures relating to our senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness (excluding certain indebtedness under senior secured credit facility), make certain payments and dividends or merge or consolidate. A failure to comply with the restrictions in any of the indentures governing the notes could result in an event of default under such indenture which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness and a default under our other debt, including our existing senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facility. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our existing senior secured credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for the next few years. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our indebtedness. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. As we are required to satisfy amortization requirements under our existing senior secured credit facility or as other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our existing senior secured credit facility, on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance the notes, extend or refinance our debt, including our existing senior secured credit facility, will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 21 The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as variations in operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies and legislatures, litigation, operating competition, market perceptions, progress with respect to potential acquisitions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the actions of rating agencies, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 